tocks or bonds. A financial analyst in a mutual fund analyzes the prospects for the 
securities and works with the investment manager to decide which should be bought 
and sold. Many other financial institutions also contain investment management 
departments. For example, you might work as a financial analyst in the investment 
department of an insurance company. (Insurance companies also invest in traded 
securities.) Or you could be a financial analyst in the trust department of a bank that 
manages money for retirement funds, universities, and charities.
Stockbroking firms help investment management companies and private individuals to invest in securities. They employ sales staff and dealers who make the trades. 
They also employ financial analysts to analyze the securities and help customers to 
decide which to buy or sell.
Investment banks and stockbroking firms are largely headquartered in New York, as 
are many of the large commercial banks. Insurance companies and investment management companies tend to be more scattered. For example, some of the largest insurance 
companies are headquartered in Hartford, Connecticut, and many investment management companies are located in Boston. Of course, some U.S. financial institutions have 
large businesses outside the United States. Finance is a global business. So you may 
spend some time working in a branch overseas or making the occasional trip to one of 
the other major financial centers, such as London, Tokyo, Hong Kong, or Singapore.
1.8 Preview of Coming Attractions
This book covers investment decisions, then financing decisions, and finally a variety 
of planning issues that require an understanding of both investment and financing. But 
first there are three further introductory chapters that should be helpful to readers who 
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 1 Goals and Governance of the Corporation 23
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 23 10/06/16 03:32 PM
are making a first acquaintance with financial management. Chapter 2 is an overview 
of financial markets and institutions. Chapter 3 reviews the basic concepts of accounting, and Chapter 4 demonstrates the techniques of financial statement analysis.
We have said that the financial manager’s task is to make investment and financing 
decisions that add value for the firm’s shareholders. But that statement opens up a 
treasure chest of follow-up questions that will occupy us from Chapter 4 onward:
∙ How do I calculate the value of a stream of future cash flows? A dollar that you 
receive today is worth more than the promise of a dollar in 10 or 20 years’ time. 
So, when measuring the effect of a new project on firm value, the financial manager 
needs to recognize the timing of the cash flows. In Chapters 5 through 10, we show 
how to calculate the present value of an investment that produces a stream of future 
cash flows. We begin by calculating the present value of bonds and stocks and then 
look at how to value the cash flows resulting from capital investment projects. Present 
value is a workhorse concept of corporate finance that shows up in almost every chapter.
∙ How do I measure risk? In Chapters 5 through 10, we largely ignore the issue of 
risk. But risky cash flows are less valuable than safe ones. In Chapters 11, 12, and 
13, we look at how to measure risk and how it affects present values.
∙ Where does financing come from? Broadly speaking, it comes from borrowing or from 
cash invested or reinvested by stockholders. But financing can get complicated when 
you get down to specifics. Chapter 14 gives an overview of the sources of finance. 
Chapters 15, 16, and 17 then look at how companies sell their securities to investors, 
the choice between debt and equity, and the decision to pay out cash to stockholders.
∙ How do I ensure that the firm’s financial decisions add up to a sensible whole?
There are two parts to this question. The first is concerned with making sure that the 
firm can finance its future growth strategy. This is the role of long-term planning. 
The second is concerned with ensuring that the firm has a sensible plan for managing 
and financing its short-term assets such as cash, inventories, and money due from 
customers. We cover long- and short-term planning in Chapters 18, 19, and 20.
∙ What about some of those other responsibilities of the financial manager that you 
mentioned earlier? Not all of the financial manager’s responsibilities can be 
classified simply as an investment decision or a financing decision. In Chapters 21 
through 24, we review four such topics. First we look at mergers and acquisitions. 
Then we consider international financial management. All the financial problems 
of doing business at home are present overseas, but the international financial 
manager faces the additional complications created by multiple currencies, 
different tax systems, and special regulations imposed by foreign institutions and 
governments. Finally, we look at risk management and the specialized securities, 
including futures and options, which managers can use to hedge or lay off risks.
That’s enough material to start, but as you reflect on this chapter, you can see 
certain themes emerging that you will encounter again and again throughout this book:
1. Corporate finance is about adding value.
2. The opportunity cost of capital sets the standard for investments.
3. A safe dollar is worth more than a risky one.
4. Smart investment decisions create more value than smart financing decisions.
5. Good governance matters.
1.9 Snippets of Financial History
Now let’s lighten up a little. In this book we are going to describe how financial 
decisions are made today. But financial markets also have an interesting history. Look 
at the nearby box, which lays out bits of this history, starting in prehistoric times, when 
the growth of bacteria anticipated the mathematics of compound interest, and continuing nearly to the present. We have keyed each of these episodes to the chapter of the 
book that discusses its topic.
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
undertaking of great advantage but nobody to know what it 
is.” Within 5 hours he had raised £2,000; within 6 hours he 
was on his way out of the country. Readers nearly two centuries later could only wonder at the naïve or foolhardy 
investors in these ventures—that is, until they had a chance 
to participate in the follies unearthed by the financial crisis 
of 2008–2009. (Chapter 2)
1792 Formation of the New York Stock Exchange The New 
York Stock Exchange (NYSE) was founded in 1792 when a 
group of brokers met under a buttonwood tree* and 
arranged to trade shares with one another at agreed rates 
of commission. Today the NYSE is the largest stock 
exchange in the world, trading on average about 1.5 billion 
shares a day. (Chapter 7)
1929 Stock Market Crashes Common stocks are risky investments. In September 1929 stock prices in the United 
States reached an all-time high, and the economist Irving 
Fisher forecast that they were at “a permanently high plateau.” Some 3 years later, stock prices were almost 90% 
lower, and it was to be a quarter of a century before the 
prices of September 1929 were seen again. Eighty years 
later, history came close to repeating itself. After stock 
prices peaked in July 2007, they slumped over the next 20 
months by 54%. (Chapter 11)
1960s Eurodollar Market In the 1950s the Soviet Union transferred its dollar holdings from the United States to a 
Russian-owned bank in Paris. This bank was best known 
by its telex address, eurobank, and consequently dollars 
held outside the United States came to be known as eurodollars. In the 1960s, U.S. taxes and regulation made it 
much cheaper to borrow and lend dollars in Europe than in 
the United States, and a huge market in eurodollars arose. 
(Chapter 14)
1971 Corporate Bankruptcies Every generation of investors 
is shocked and surprised by a major corporate bankruptcy. 
In 1971 the Penn Central Railroad, a pillar of American 
industry, suddenly collapsed. At that time, it was the largest corporate bankruptcy in history. In 2008, the investment bank Lehman Brothers smashed Penn Central’s 
record. (Chapter 16)
1972 Financial Futures Financial futures allow companies to 
protect themselves against fluctuations in interest rates, 
exchange rates, and so on. It is said that they originated 
from a remark by the economist Milton Friedman that 
he was unable to profit from his view that sterling (the U.K. 
currency) was overpriced. The Chicago Mercantile 
Exchange founded the first financial futures market. 
Today futures exchanges trade 6 billion contracts a year of 
financial futures. (Chapter 24)
1986 Capital Investment Decisions The largest investment 
project undertaken by a single private company was the 
construction of the tunnel under the English Channel. This 
started in 1986 and was completed in 1994 at a total cost 
of $15 billion. The cost of the Gorgon natural gas project in 
Australia is estimated at $54 billion. (Chapters 8, 9)
1988 Mergers The 1980s saw a wave of takeovers culminating in the $25 billion takeover of RJR Nabisco. Over a 