n Chapter 1 we introduced the basic objective of
corporate finance: Maximize the current value of
shareholders’ investment in the firm. For public
corporations, this value is set in the stock market.
It equals market price per share multiplied by the
number of shares outstanding. Of course, the fluctuations
in market value partly reflect events that are
outside the manager’s control. Nevertheless, good
managers always strive to add value by superior investment
and financing decisions.
How can we judge whether managers are doing a
good job at adding value or where there may be scope
for improvement? We need measures of value added.
We also need measures that help explain where the
value added comes from. For example, value added
depends on profitability, so we need measures of profitability.
Profitability depends in turn on profit margins and
on how efficiently the firm uses its assets. We will
describe the standard measures of profitability and
efficiency in this chapter.
Value also depends on sound financing. Value is
destroyed if the firm is financed recklessly and can’t pay
its debts. Value is also destroyed if the firm does not
maintain adequate liquidity and therefore has difficulty
finding the cash to pay its bills. Therefore, we will
describe the measures that financial managers and
investors use to assess debt policy and liquidity.
These financial measures are mostly financial ratios
calculated from the firm’s income statement and balance
sheet. Therefore, we will have to take care to
remember the limitations of these accounting data.
You have probably heard stories of whizzes who can
take a company’s accounts apart in minutes, calculate a
list of financial ratios, and divine the company’s future.
Such people are like abominable snowmen: often

substitute for a crystal ball. They are just a convenient
way to summarize financial data and to assess and compare
financial performance. The ratios help you to ask
the right questions, but they seldom answer them.
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-28 20:21:00.
Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
88 Part One Introduction
How Financial Ratios Relate to Shareholder Value
The good news about financial ratios is that they are usually easy to calculate. The bad
news is that there are so many of them. To make it worse, the ratios are often presented
in long lists that seem to require memorization first and understanding maybe later.
We can mitigate the bad news by taking a moment to preview what the ratios are
measuring and how the ratios connect to the ultimate objective of value added for
shareholders.
Shareholder value depends on good investment decisions. The financial manager

are the investments relative to the cost of capital? How should profitability be
measured? What does profitability depend on? (We will see that it depends on
efficient use of assets and on the bottom-line profits on each dollar of sales.)
Shareholder value also depends on good financing decisions. Again, there are obvious
questions: Is the available financing sufficient? The firm cannot grow unless
financing is available. Is the financing strategy prudent? The financial manager should
not put the firm’s assets and operations at risk by operating at a dangerously high debt
ratio, for example. Does the firm have sufficient liquidity (a cushion of cash or assets
that can be readily sold for cash)? The firm has to be able to pay its bills and respond
to unexpected setbacks.
Figure 4.1 summarizes these questions in somewhat more detail. The boxes on the
left are for investment, the boxes on the right for financing. In each box, we have posed
a question and, where appropriate, given examples of financial ratios or other
measures that the financial manager can use to answer the question. For example,
the bottom box on the far left of Figure 4.1 asks about efficient use of assets. Three
financial ratios that measure asset efficiency are turnover ratios for assets, inventory,
and accounts receivable.
The two bottom boxes on the right ask whether financial leverage (the amount of
debt financing) is prudent and whether the firm has enough liquidity for the coming
year. The ratios for tracking financial leverage include debt ratios, such as the ratio of

quick, and cash ratios.
4.1
Shareholder Value
How much value has been generated?
Turnover ratios for assets,
inventory, and receivables
Ecient use of assets? Profits from sales?
Operating profit margin
Prudent financial
leverage?
Sucient liquidity for
the coming year?
Current, quick, and cash
ratios
Debt ratios
Interest coverage ratios
Economic value added (EVA)
Returns on capital, assets, and equity
How profitable? How can the firm safely finance
future growth?
Investment Financing
Market value added
Market-to-book ratio
FIGURE 4.1 An organization chart for financial ratios. The figure shows how common financialWe will explain how to calculate and interpret these and the other ratios in
Figure 4.1. For now you can read the figure as an organization chart that locates
some important financial ratios and shows how they relate to the objective of
shareholder value.
Now we start at the top of the figure. Our first task is to measure value. We will
explain market capitalization, market value added, and the market-to-book ratio.
Measuring Market Value and Market Value Added
Twenty years have passed since your introductory finance class. You are well into your
career, and Home Depot is on your mind. Perhaps you are a mutual fund manager
trying to decide whether to allocate $25 million of new money to Home Depot stock.
Perhaps you are a major shareholder pondering a sellout. You could be an investment
banker seeking business from Home Depot or a bondholder concerned with Home
Depot’s credit standing. You could be the treasurer or CFO of Home Depot or of
one of its competitors. You want to understand Home Depot’s value and financial
performance. How would you start?
Home Depot’s common stock closed fiscal 2014 at a price of $114.75 per share.
There were 1,307 million shares outstanding, so Home Depot’s market capitalization
or “market cap” was $114.75 × 1,307 = $149,978 million, or nearly $150 billion.
This is a big number, of course, but Home Depot is a big company. Home Depot’s
shareholders have, over the years, invested billions in the company. Therefore,
you decide to compare Home Depot’s market capitalization with the book value of
Home Depot’s equity. The book value measures shareholders’ cumulative investment
in the firm.
You turn to Home Depot’s income statement and balance sheet, which are reproduced
in Tables 4.1 and 4.2.1 At the end of 2014, the book value of Home Depot’s
equity was $9,322 million. Therefore, Home Depot’s market value added, the difference
between the market value of the firm’s shares and the amount of money that
shareholders have invested in the firm, was $149,978 − $9,322 = $140,656 million.
In other words, Home Depot shareholders have contributed about $9.3 billion
and ended up with shares worth almost $150 billion. They have accumulated $140.7
billion in market value added.
4.2
market capitalization
Total market value of
equity, equal to share price
times number of shares
outstanding.
market value added
Market capitalization minus
book value of equity.
1 For convenience the statements are repeated from Chapter 3. We are pretending that you actually had these
statements on February 3, 2015, the close of Home Depot’s fiscal year. They were not published until March.
$ Millions
Net sales $83,176
Other income 337
Cost of goods sold 54,222
Selling, general, and administrative expenses 16,699
Depreciation 1,786
Earnings before interest and income taxes (EBIT) $10,806
Interest expense 830
Taxable income $ 9,976
Taxes 3,631
Net income $ 6,345
Allocation of net income
Dividends $ 2,530
Addition to retained earnings $ 3,815
TABLE 4.1 Income statement for Home Depot, fiscal 2014
Assets 2014 2013 Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity 2014 2013
Current assets
Cash and marketable securities $ 1,723 $ 1,929 Current liabilities
Receivables 1,484 1,398 Debt due for repayment $ 328 $ 33
Inventories 11,079 11,057 Accounts payable 9,473 9,379
Other current assets 1,016 895 Other current liabilities 1,468 1,337
Total current assets $15,302 $15,279 Total current liabilities $11,269 $10,749
Fixed assets Long-term debt $16,869 $14,691
Tangible fixed assets Deferred income taxes 642 514
Property, plant, and equipment $40,353 $39,064 Other long-term liabilities 1,844 2,042
Less accumulated depreciation 17,633 15,716
Net tangible fixed assets $22,720 $23,348 Total liabilities $30,624 $27,996
Intangible assets (goodwill) 1,353 1,289 Shareholders’ equity
Other assets 571 602 Common stock and other paid-in capital $ 8,521 $ 8,536
Retained earnings 26,995 23,180
Total assets $39,946 $40,518 Treasury stock (26,194) (19,194)
Total shareholders’ equity $ 9,322 $12,522
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $39,946 $40,518
TABLE 4.2 Home Depot’s balance sheet (figures in $ millions)
Note: Column sums subject to rounding error.
TABLE 4.3 Stock market
measures of company
performance, February 2015.
Companies are ranked by market
value added (dollar values in
millions).
Market Value Added Market-to-Book Ratio
Apple $627,589 6.41
Microsoft 242,343 2.55
Walmart 185,339 3.99
ExxonMobil 171,465 2.30
Coca-Cola 150,102 5.95
Delta Airlines 2,850 1.41
Time Warner 75 1.02
Alcoa −7,772 0.93
Sprint −42,682 0.87
Bank of America −118,151 0.60
Source: We are grateful to EVA Dimensions for providing these statistics.
The consultancy firm EVA Dimensions calculates market value added for a large
sample of U.S. companies. Table 4.3 shows a few of the firms from EVA’s list. They
include some of the most and least successful companies. Apple heads the group.
It has created $627.6 billion of wealth for its shareholders. Bank of America languishes
near the bottom: The market value of its shares is $118 billion less than the
amount of shareholders’ money invested in the firm.
The top-listed companies in Table 4.3 are large firms. Their managers have lots
of assets to work with. A small firm could not hope to create so much extra value.
Therefore, financial managers and analysts also like to calculate how much value has
been added for each dollar that shareholders have invested. To do this, they compute
the ratio of market value to book value. For example, Home Depot’s market-to-book
ratio in early 2015 (at the end of its 2014 fiscal year) was2
Market-to-book ratio = _ m a_r_k_e_t _v_a_lu_e_ _o_f_ e_q_u_i_ty_
book value of equity
= _$1_4_9_,_9_7_8
$9,322
= 16.1
market-to-book ratio
Ratio of market value of
equity to book value of
equity.
2 The market-to-book ratio can also be calculated by dividing stock price by book value per share.
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from
Chapter 4 Measuring Corporate Performance 91
In other words, Home Depot has multiplied the value of its shareholders’ investment
16.1 times.
Table 4.3 shows a sample of market-to-book ratios for 2014. Notice that
Coca-Cola has a much higher market-to-book ratio than ExxonMobil. But Exxon’s
market value added is higher because of its larger scale.
The market-value performance measures in Table 4.3 have three drawbacks. First,
the market value of the company’s shares reflects investors’ expectations about future
performance. Investors pay attention to current profits and investment, of course, but
they also avidly forecast investment and growth. Second, market values fluctuate
because of many risks and events that are outside the financial manager’s control.
Thus, market values are noisy measures of how well the corporation’s management is
performing. Third, you can’t look up the market value of privately owned companies
whose shares are not traded. Nor can you observe the market value of divisions or
plants that are parts of larger companies. You may use market values to satisfy yourself
that Home Depot as a whole has performed well, but you can’t use them to drill
down to compare the performance of the lumber and home improvement divisions.
To do this, you need accounting measures of profitability. We start with economic
value added (EVA).
Economic Value Added and Accounting
Rates of Return
When accountants draw up an income statement, they start with revenues and then
deduct operating and other costs. But one important cost is not included: the cost of
the capital the firm employs. Therefore, to see whether the firm has truly created
value, we need to measure whether it has earned a profit after deducting all costs,
including the cost of its capital.
Recall from Chapters 1 and 2 that the cost of capital is the minimum acceptable rate
of return on capital investment. It is an opportunity cost of capital because it equals the
expected rate of return on opportunities open to investors in financial markets.
The firm creates value only if it can earn more than its cost of capital, that is, more
than its investors can earn by investing on their own.
The profit after deducting all costs, including the cost of capital, is called the
company’s economic value added or EVA. The term “EVA” was coined by Stern
Stewart & Co., which did much to develop and promote the concept. EVA is also
called residual income.
In calculating EVA, it’s customary to take account of all the long-term capital contributed
by investors in the corporation. That means including bonds and other longterm
debt as well as equity capital. Total long-term capital, usually called total
capitalization, is the sum of long-term debt and shareholders’ equity.
4.3
economic value added (EVA)
Net income minus a charge
for the cost of capital
employed. Also called
residual income.
Shares of Notung Cutlery Corp. closed 2015 at $75 per share. Notung had
14.5 million shares outstanding. The book value of equity was $610 million.
Compute Notung’s market capitalization, market value added, and market-tobook
ratio.
4.1 Self-Test
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-28 20:21:00.
Corporate Financing. How can a small, private firm finance its capital investments? Give two
or three examples of financing sources. (LO2-1)
2. Financial Markets. The stock and bond markets are not the only financial markets. Give two or
three additional examples. (LO2-1)
3. Financial Markets and Institutions. True or false? (LO2-1)
a. Financing for public corporations must flow through financial markets.
b. Financing for private corporations must flow through financial intermediaries.
c. Almost all foreign exchange trading occurs on the floors of the FOREX exchanges in New
York and London.
d. Derivative markets are a major source of finance for many corporations.
e. The opportunity cost of capital is the capital outlay required to undertake a real investment
opportunity.
f. The cost of capital is the interest rate paid on borrowing from a bank or other financial
institution.
4. Corporate Financing. Financial markets and intermediaries channel savings from investors to
corporate investment. The savings make this journey by many different routes. Give a specific
example for each of the following routes: (LO2-1)
a. Investor to financial intermediary, to financial markets, and to the corporation
b. Investor to financial markets, to a financial intermediary, and to the corporation
c. Investor to financial markets, to a financial intermediary, back to financial markets, and to
the corporation
5. Financial Intermediaries. You are a beginning investor with only $5,000 in savings. How can
you achieve a widely diversified portfolio at reasonable cost? (LO2-2)
6. Financial Intermediaries. Is an insurance company also a financial intermediary? How does
the insurance company channel savings to corporate investment? (LO2-2)
7. Corporate Financing. Choose the most appropriate term to complete each sentence. (LO2-2)
a. Households hold a greater percentage of (corporate equities / corporate bonds).
b. (Pension funds / Banks) are major investors in corporate equities.
c. (Investment banks / Commercial banksGreece was in the worst shape. It had accumulated €350 billion (about $460 billion)
of government debt. Greece is a member of the single-currency euro club, so it had no
control over its currency and could not just print more euros to service its debts. In
2011 it defaulted on debts totaling €100 billion.
Greece was still on shaky ground in early 2016, despite a series of rescue packages
from the European Union, the European Central Bank, and the International Monetary
Fund. Spain, Portugal, Ireland, and other European countries that had also worried
investors avoided default and seemed to be recovering. But unemployment in many
European countries remained stubbornly high and economic growth anemic.
What lessons can you, as a student of finance, draw from these financial crises?
Here are three. First, note the sorry consequences for the economy when financial
markets and institutions do not carry out the functions described in this chapter. For
example, the crisis was amplified by the sudden disappearance of liquidity in many
markets, including the market for MBSs. That meant that potential buyers of the illiquid
assets could not know for sure what they were worth. Thus, the informational function
of financial markets was also compromised.
Second, why were Bear Stearns, Lehman, Merrill Lynch, and the other distressed
firms so fragile? One reason is that they were mostly financed with borrowed money,
much of it short-term debt that had to be refinanced frequently. Investment banks like
Lehman typically were financed with more than 95% debt and less than 5% equity
capital. Thus a 5% fall in their asset values could wipe out their equity “cushions” and
leave the banks insolvent. Regulators since the crisis have therefore required banks to
finance with much more equity. This requirement has also affected payout to shareholders.
A U.S. bank’s dividend payments can be stopped by regulators if the bank’s
equity capital ratio is not up to snuff. We cover decisions about debt versus equity
financing and payout in Chapters 16 and 17.
Third, some causes of the crisis can be traced back to agency problems noted in
Chapter 1. Managers in the mortgage business were probably at least dimly aware that
promoting and selling massive amounts of subprime MBSs was likely to end badly.
They didn’t wake up in the morning thinking, “Hey, maybe I can cause a financial
crisis,” but their incentives did call for trying to squeeze out one more fat bonus before
the game ended. Their incentives were not aligned withMortgage-backed securities (MBSs) provide another example
of how financial markets convey savings to finance
investment in real assets. In this case, the real assets
are homes, which homeowners finance in part with mortgage
loans.
In the old days—the 1960s, for example—most mortgage
loans were made by local banks, savings banks, and savings
and loan institutions (S&Ls), which accepted deposits and savings
accounts and made mortgage and other local loans. We
will use an S&L as the example. The flow of savings would be
as described by the figure in Panel a, at the bottom of this box.
The typical mortgage was long term, up to 30 years maturity,
with a fixed interest rate. The S&Ls’ liabilities—chiefly savings
accounts—had much shorter maturities, perhaps a year
or two on average. The S&Ls were therefore “borrowing
short, lending long,” a dangerous investment strategy. When
interest rates rose in the 1970s and 1980s, the S&Ls’ interest
costs on savings accounts rose, too, but their interest income
was locked up in long-term, fixed-rate mortgages. Losses
mounted. The S&L crisis of the 1980s followed.*
The invention of the MBS allowed S&Ls to eliminate the risks
of borrowing short and lending long. You can still get a mortgage
from your local S&L, but now the S&L does not have to keep it.
The S&L originates the mortgage, but will probably resell it to an
MBS issuer—for example, Fannie Mae (Federal National Mortgage
Association or FNMA†) or Bank of America. The issuer combines
your mortgage with hundreds or thousands of others and
issues an MBS backed by the combined portfolio. The MBS is
sold to investors such as life insurance companies that want to
hold long-term, fixed-rate obligations. Cash flows from the mortgage
portfolio are passed through to investors.‡
Suppose a life insurance company purchases an MBS. The
flow of savings would now match the figure in Panel b.
Finance in Practice Mortgage-Backed Securities
* For a history of the crisis, see Edward J. Kane, The S&L Insurance Mess: How
Did It Happen? (Washington, D.C.: Urban Institute Press, 1989).
† Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) are
government-sponsored entities (GSEs) charged with increasing the availability
of mortgage credit. The GSEs purchase “conforming loans” and package and
resell them as MBSs. Nonconforming loans—for example, large, “jumbo”
mortgages—are packaged by banks such as Citigroup or Bank of America.
‡ You still send monthly payments to your local S&L. The S&L extracts a small
servicing fee and sends your payments along to the MBS issuer, which also
extracts a small servicing fee. Net cash flows from the portfolio of mortgages
then go to the MBS investors.
Homeowner S&L
Mortgage loan
(a)
$
Investors
(Depositors)
Savings account
$
Homeowner
(b)
S&L
Mortgage
loan
$
MBS
Issuer
Mortgage
loan
Issuer assembles
portfolio of mortgages
$
Insurance
Company
MBS
$
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created fromThe financial crisis of 2007–2009 raised many questions, but it settled one question
conclusively: Yes, financial markets and institutions are important. When financial
markets and institutions ceased to operate properly, the world was pushed into a global
recession.
The financial crisis had its roots in the easy-money policies that were pursued by
the U.S. Federal Reserve and other central banks following the collapse of the Internet
and telecom stock bubble in 2000. At the same time, large balance-of-payments surpluses
in Asian economies were invested back into U.S. debt securities. This also
helped to push down interest rates and contribute to lax credit.
Banks took advantage of this cheap money to expand the supply of subprime mortgages
to low-income borrowers. Many banks tempted would-be homeowners with low
initial payments, offset by significantly higher payments later.18 (Some home buyers
were betting on escalating housing prices so that they could resell or refinance before
the higher payments kicked in.) One lender is even said to have advertised what it
dubbed its “NINJA” loan—NINJA standing for “No Income, No Job, and No Assets.”
Most subprime mortgages were then packaged together into mortgage-backed securities
(MBSs) that could be resold. But, instead of selling these securities to investors
who could best bear the risk, many banks kept large quantities of the loans on their
own books or sold them to other banks.
The widespread availability of mortgage finance fueled a dramatic increase in
house prices, which doubled in the 5 years ending June 2006. At that point, prices
started to slide and homeowners began to default on their mortgages. A year later,
Bear Stearns, a large investment bank, announced huge losses on the mortgage investments
that were held in two of its hedge funds. By the spring of 2008, Bear Stearns
was on the verge of bankruptcy, and the U.S. Federal Reserve arranged for it to be
acquired by JPMorgan Chase.
The crisis peaked in September 2008, when the U.S. government was obliged to take
over the giant federal mortgage agencies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, both of which
had invested several hundred billion dollars in subprime mortgage-backed securities.
Over the next few days, the financial system started to melt down. Both Merrill Lynch
and Lehman Brothers were in danger of failing. On September 14, the government
arranged for Bank of America to take over Merrill in return for financial guarantees.
However, it did nothing to rescue Lehman Brothers, which filed for bankruptcy protection
the next day. Two days later, the government reluctantly lent $85 billion to the
giant insurance company AIG, which had insured huge volumes of mortgage-backed
securities and other bonds against default. The following day, the Treasury unveiled its
first proposal to spend $700 billion to purchase “toxic” mortgage-backed securities.
After the failure of Lehman and the forced rescues of Bear Stearns, Fannie Mae, Freddie
Mac, Merrill Lynch, and AIG, investors and financial institutions had to ask, “Who will
be next? Do I dare trade with or lend money to Bank X?” In many situations, the cautious
answer was “No.” Customary day-to-day financial transactions were canceled or completed
on onerous terms.19 At the same time, trading in MBSs and other hard-to-value
securities dried up; it therefore became even harder to know what these securities were
worth. As banks and other financial institutions became reluctant to trade securities or
lend to one another, the supply of credit to the economy contracted and business investment
was cut back. The U.S. economy suffered one of its worst setbacks since the Great
Depression. Unemployment rose rapidly and business bankruptcies tripled.
2.4
18 With a so-called option ARM loan, the minimum mortgage payment was often not even sufficient to cover
that month’s interest on the loan. The unpaid interest was then added to the amount of the mortgage, so the
homeowner was burdened by an ever-increasing mortgage that one day would need to be paid off.
19 The interest rate on interbank loans rose in 2008 to 4.6%Stock prices and company values summarize investors’ collective assessment
of how well a company is doing, both its current performance and its future prospects.
Thus an increase in stock price sends a positive signal from investors to
managers.16 That is why top management’s compensation is linked to stock prices. A
manager who owns shares in his or her company will be motivated to increase the
company’s market value. This reduces agency costs by aligning the interests of managers
and stockholders.
This is one important advantage of going public. A private company can’t use its
stock price as a measure of performance. It can still compensate managers with shares,
but the shares will not be valued in a financial market.
Cost of Capital Financial managers look to financial markets to measure, or at
least estimate, the cost of capital for the firm’s investment projects. The cost of capital
is the minimum acceptable rate of return on the project. Investment projects offering
rates of return higher than their cost of capital are worthwhile because they add value;
they make both the firm and its shareholders better off financially. Projects offering
rates of return less than the cost of capital subtract value and should not be
undertaken.17
Thus the hurdle rate for investments inside the corporation is actually set outside
the corporation. The expected rate of return on investments in financial markets determines
the opportunity cost of capital.
The opportunity cost of capital is generally not the interest rate that the firm pays on
a loan from a bank or insurance company. If the company is making a risky investment,
the opportunity cost of capital is the expected rate of return that investors can
achieve in financial markets at the same level of risk. The expected rate of return on
risky securities is normally well above the interest rate on corporate borrowing.
We introduced the cost of capital in Chapter 1, but this brief reminder may help to
fix the idea. We cover the cost of capital in detail in Chapters 11 and 12.
cost of capital
Minimum acceptable rate
of return on capital
investment.
TABLE 2.3 Calculating the
market capitalization of Callaway
Golf and other companies in
March 2016. (Shares and market
values in millions. Ticker symbols
in parentheses.)
Number of Shares × Stock Price =
Market Capitalization
($ millions)
Callaway Golf (ELY) 93.8 × $8.76 = $821
Alaska Air Group (ALK) 124.7 × $80.77 = $10,074
Entergy (ETR) 178.5 × $75.92 = $13,551
Yum! Brands (YUM) 408.7 × $77.77 = $31,875
General Electric (GE) 9,331.0 × $30.34 = $283,091
Source: Yahoo! Finance, finance.yahoo.com.
16 We can’t claim that investors’ assessments of value are always correct. Finance can be a risky and dangerous
business—dangerous for your wealth, that is. With hindsight we see horrible mistakes by investors, for example,
the gross overvaluation of Internet and telecom companies in 2000. On average, however, it appears that financial
markets collect and assess information quickly and accurately. We’ll discuss this issue again in Chapter 7.
17 Of course, the firm may invest for other reasons. For example, it may invest in pollution control equipment for
a factory. The equipment may not generate a cash return but may still be worth investing in to meet legal and
ethical obligations.
Which of the functions described in this section require financial markets?
Explain briefly.
2.4 Self-Test
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created fromand firms to send and receive payments quickly and safely over long distances. Banks
are the obvious providers of payment services, but they are not alone. For example, if
you buy shares in a money market mutual fund, your money is pooled with that of
other investors and used to buy safe, short-term securities. You can then write checks
on this mutual fund investment, just as if you had a bank deposit.
Information Provided by Financial Markets
In well-functioning financial markets, you can see what securities and commodities are
worth, and you can see—or at least estimate—the rates of return that investors can expect
on their savings. The information provided by financial markets is often essential to a
financial manager’s job. Here are three examples of how this information can be used.
Commodity Prices Catalytic converters are used in the exhaust systems of cars and
light trucks to reduce pollution. The catalysts include platinum, which is traded on the
New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX).
In March a manufacturer of catalytic converters is planning production for October.
How much per ounce should the company budget for purchases of platinum in that
month? Easy: The company’s CFO looks up the futures price of platinum on the New
York Mercantile Exchange—$972 per ounce for delivery in October (this was the
closing price for platinum in March 2016, for delivery in October). The CFO can lock
in that price if she wishes. The details of such a trade are covered in Chapter 24.
Interest Rates The CFO of Catalytic Concepts has to raise $400 million in new
financing. She considers an issue of long-term bonds. What will the interest rate on the
bonds be? To find out, the CFO looks up interest rates on existing bonds traded in
financial markets.
The results are shown in Table 2.2. Notice how the interest rate climbs as credit
quality deteriorates: The largest, safest companies, which are rated AAA (“triple-A”),
can raise long-term debt at a 2.59% interest rate. The interest rates for AA, A, and
BBB rise to 2.62%, 3.03%, and 4.32%, respectively. BBB companies are still regarded
as investment grade, that is, good quality, but the next step down takes the investor into
junk bond territory. The interest rate for BB debt climbs to 5.62%. Single-B companies
are riskier still, so investors demand 8.32%.
There will be more on bond ratings and interest rates in Chapter 6. But you can see
how a financial manager can use information from fixed-income markets to forecast
the interest rate on new debt financing. For example, if Catalytic Concepts can qualify
as a BBB-rated company, and interest rates are as shown in Table 2.2, it should be able
to raise new debt financing for approximately 4.32%.
Company Values How much was Callaway Golf worth in March 2016? How about
Alaska Air Group, Entergy, Yum! Brands, or GE? Table 2.3 shows the market capitalization
of each company. We simply multiply the number of shares outstanding by the
price per share in the stock market. Investors valued Callaway Golf at $821 million
and GE at $283 billion.
TABLE 2.2 Interest rates on

March 2016. The interest rate is
lowest for top-quality (AAA)
issuers. The rate rises as credit
quality declines.
Credit Rating Interest RateLiquidity
Markets and intermediaries also provide liquidity, that is, the ability to turn an investment
back into cash when needed. Suppose you deposit $5,000 in a savings bank on
February 1. During that month, the bank uses your deposit and other new deposits to
make a 6-month construction loan to a real estate developer. On March 1, you realize
that you need your $5,000 back. The bank can give it to you. Because the bank has
thousands of depositors, and other sources of financing if necessary, it can make an
illiquid loan to the developer financed by liquid deposits made by you and other customers.
If you lend your money for 6 months directly to the real estate developer, you
will have a hard time retrieving it 1 month later.15
The shares of public companies are liquid because they are traded more or less continuously
in the stock market. An Italian investor who puts $60,000 into Bank of
America shares can recover that money on short notice. (A $60,000 sell order is a drop
in the bucket compared with the normal trading volume of Bank of America shares.)
Mutual funds can redeem their shares for cash on short notice because the funds invest
in traded securities, which can be sold as necessary.
Of course, liquidity is a matter of degree. Foreign exchange markets for major currencies
are exceptionally liquid. Bank of America or Deutsche Bank could buy $200 million
worth of yen or euros in the blink of an eye, with hardly any effect on foreign exchange
rates. U.S. Treasury securities are also very liquid, and the shares of the largest companies
on the major international stock exchanges are only slightly less so.
Liquidity is most important when you’re in a hurry. If you try to sell $500,000
worth of the shares of a small, thinly traded company all at once, you will probably
knock down the price to some extent. If you’re patient and don’t surprise other investors
with a large, sudden sell order, you may be able to unload your shares on better
terms. It’s the same problem that you may face in selling real estate. A house or condominium
is not a liquid asset in a panic sale. If you’re determined to sell in an afternoon,
you’re not going to get full value.
The Payment Mechanism
Think how inconvenient life would be if you had to pay for every purchase in cash or
if Boeing had to ship truckloads of hundred-dollar bills around the country to pay its
suppliers. Checking accounts, credit cards, and electronic transfers allow individuals
liquidity
The ability to sell an asset
on short notice at close to
the market value.
15 Of course, the bank can’t repay all depositors simultaneously. To do so, it would have to sell off its loans to
the real estate developer and other borrowers. These loans are not liquid. This raises the specter of bank runs,
where doubts about a bank’s ability to pay off its depositors cause a rush of withdrawals, with each depositor
trying to get his or her money out first. Bank runs are rare because bank deposits are backed up by theTransporting Cash across Time
Individuals need to transport expenditures in time. If you have money now that you
wish to save for a rainy day, you can (for example) put the money in a savings account
at a bank and withdraw it with interest later. If you don’t have money today, say to buy
a car, you can borrow money from the bank and pay off the loan later. Modern finance
provides a kind of time machine. Lenders transport money forward in time; borrowers
transport it back. Both are happier than if they were forced to spend income as it
arrives. Of course, individuals are not alone in needing to raise cash from time to time.
Firms with good investment opportunities, but a shortage of internally generated cash,
raise cash by borrowing or selling new shares. Many governments run deficits and
finance current outlays by issuing debt.
Young people saving for retirement may transport their current earnings 30 or 40
years into the future by means of a pension fund. They can even transport income to
their heirs by purchase of a life insurance policy.
In principle, individuals or firms with cash surpluses could take out newspaper
advertisements or surf the web looking for counterparties with cash shortages. But it is
usually cheaper and more convenient to use financial markets and intermediaries. It is
not just a matter of avoiding the cost of searching for the right counterparty. Follow-up
is needed. For example, banks don’t just lend money and walk away. They monitor the
borrower to make sure that the loan is used for its intended purpose and that the borrower’s
credit stays solid.
Risk Transfer and Diversification
Financial markets and intermediaries allow investors and businesses to reduce
and reallocate risk. Insurance companies are an obvious example. When you buy
homeowner’s insurance, you greatly reduce the risk of loss from fire, theft, or accidents.
But your policy is not a very risky bet for the insurance company. It diversifies
by issuing thousands of policies, and it expects losses to average out over the policies.13
The insurance company allows you to pool risk with thousands of other homeowners.
Investors should diversify too. For example, you can buy shares in a mutual fund
that holds hundreds of stocks. In fact, you can buy index funds that invest in all the
stocks in the popular market indexes. For example, the Vanguard 500 Index Fund holds
the stocks in the Standard & Poor’s Composite stock market index. (The “S&P 500”
tracks the performance of the largest U.S. stocks. It is the index most used by professional
investors.) If you buy this fund, you are insulated from the company-specific
risks of the 500 companies in the index. These risks are averaged out by diversification.
Of course you are still left with the risk that the level of the stock market as a
whole will fall. In fact, we will see in Chapter 11 that investors are mostly concerned
with market risk, not the specific risks of individual companies.
Index mutual funds are one way to invest in widely diversified portfolios at low
cost. Another route is provided by exchange-traded funds (ETFs), which are portfolios
of stocks that can be bought or sold in a single trade. For example, Standard & Poor’s
Depositary Receipts (SPDRs, or “spiders”) invest in portfolios that match Standard &
Poor’s stock market indexes. The total amount invested in the spider that tracks the
benchmark S&P 500 index was $134 billion in early 2016.
ETFs are in some ways more efficient than mutual funds. To buy or sell an ETF,
you simply make a trade, just as if you bought or sold shares of stock.14 This is
13 Unfortunately for insurance companies, the losses don’t always average out. Hurricanes and earthquakes can
damage thousands of homes at once. The potential losses are so great that propertythe-world slice is 16.0%.
The aggregate amounts represented in these figures are enormous. There is
$11.9 trillion of debt behind Figure 2.3 and $34.1 trillion of equity behind Figure 2.4
($34,100,000,000,000).
Chapter 14 reviews corporate financing patterns in more detail.
Functions of Financial Markets
and Intermediaries
Financial markets and intermediaries provide financing for business. They channel
savings to real investment. That much should be loud and clear from Sections 2.1 and
2.2 of this chapter. But there are other functions that may not be quite so
buy a fire insurance policy on your home. You pay cash to the insurance company
and get a financial asset (the policy) in exchange. You receive no interest payments on
this financial asset, but if a fire does strike, the company is obliged to cover the damages
up to the policy limit. This is the return on your investment. (Of course, a fire is a
sad and dangerous event that you hope to avoid. But if a fire does occur, you are better
off getting a payoff on your insurance policy than not having insurance at all.)
The company will issue not just one policy but thousands. Normally the incidence
of fires “averages out,” leaving the company with a predictable obligation to its policyholders
as a group. Of course, the insurance company must charge enough for its policies
to cover selling and administrative costs, pay policyholders’ claims, and generate
a profit for its stockholders.
Total Financing of U.S. Corporations
The pie chart in Figure 2.3 shows the investors in bonds and other debt securities.
Notice the importance of institutional investors—mutual funds, pension funds, insurance
companies, and banks. Households (individual investors) hold less than 5% of the
debt pie. The other slices represent the rest of the world (investors from outside the
United States) and other, smaller categories of investors.
The pie chart in Figure 2.4 shows holdings of the shares issued by U.S. corporaThe bank provides debt financing for the company and, at the same time, provides
a place for depositors to park their money safely and withdraw it as needed.
Investment Banks We have discussed commercial banks, which raise money from
depositors and other investors and then make loans to businesses and individuals.
Investment banks are different. Investment banks do not generally take deposits or
make loans to companies.10 Instead, they advise and assist companies in obtaining
finance. For example, investment banks underwrite stock offerings by purchasing the
new shares from the issuing company at a negotiated price and reselling the shares to
investors. Thus the issuing company gets a fixed price for the new shares, and the
investment bank takes responsibility for distributing the shares to investors. We discuss
share issues in more detail in Chapter 15.
Investment banks also advise on takeovers, mergers, and acquisitions. They offer
investment advice and manage investment portfolios for individual and institutional
investors. They run trading desks for foreign exchange, commodities, bonds, options,
and other derivatives.
Investment banks can invest their own money in start-ups and other ventures.
For example, the Australian Macquarie Bank has invested in airports, toll highways,
electric transmission andLike mutual funds, hedge funds also pool the savings of different investors and
invest on their behalf. But they differ from mutual funds in at least two ways. First,
because hedge funds usually follow complex, high-risk investment strategies, access is
usually restricted to knowledgeable investors such as pension funds, endowment funds,
and wealthy individuals. Don’t try to send a check for $3,000 or $5,000 to a hedge
fund; most hedge funds are not in the “retail” investment business. Second, hedge
funds try to attract the most talented managers by compensating them with potentially
lucrative, performance-related fees.4 In contrast, mutual funds usually charge a fixed
percentage of assets under management.
Hedge funds follow many different investment strategies. Some try to make a profit
by identifying overvalued stocks or markets and selling short. (We will not go into
procedures for short-selling here. Just remember that short-sellers profit when prices
fall.5) “Vulture funds” specialize in the securities of distressed corporations. Some
hedge funds take bets on firms involved in merger negotiations, others look for mispriced
convertible bonds, and some take positions in currencies and interest rates.

positions and have a large impact on the market.
There are other ways of pooling and investing savings. Consider a pension plan set
up by a corporation or other organization on behalf of its employees. There are several
types of pension plan. The most common type of plan is the defined-contribution plan.
In this case, a percentage of the employee’s monthly paycheck is contributed to a
pension fund. (The employer and employee may each contribute 5%, for example.)
Contributions from all participating employees are pooled and invested in securities or
mutual funds. (Usually the employees can choose from a menu of funds with different
investment strategies.) Each employee’s balance in the plan grows over the years as
contributions continue and investment income accumulates. The balance in the plan
can be used to finance living expenses after retirement. The amount available for
retirement depends on the accumulated contributions and on the rate of return earned
on the investments.6
Pension funds are designed for long-run investment. They provide professional
management and diversification. They also have an important tax advantage: Contributions
are tax-deductible, and investment returns inside the plan are not taxed until
cash is finally withdrawn.7
Pension plans are among the most important vehicles for savings. Total assets held
by U.S. pension plans were about $15 trillion inFinancial Intermediaries
A financial intermediary is an organization that raises money from investors and
provides financing for individuals, companies, and other organizations. For corporations,
intermediaries are important sources of financing. Intermediaries are a stop on
the road between savings and real investment.
Why is a financial intermediary different from a manufacturing corporation? First,
it may raise money in different ways, for example, by taking deposits or selling insurance
policies. Second, it invests that money in financial assets, for example, in stocks,
bonds, or loans to businesses or individuals. In contrast, a manufacturing company’s
main investments are in plant, equipment, or other real assets.
We will start with two important classes of intermediaries, mutual funds and pension
funds.
Mutual funds raise money by selling shares to investors. The investors’ money is
pooled and invested in a portfolio of securities. Investors can buy or sell shares in
mutual funds as they please, and initial investments are often $3,000 or less. Vanguard’s
Explorer Fund, for example, held a portfolio of more than 700 stocks with a
market value of about $10 billion in early 2016. An investor in Explorer can increase
her stake in the fund’s portfolio by buying additional shares, and so gain a higher share
of the portfolio’s subsequent dividends and price appreciation.2 She can also sell her
shares back to the fund if she decides to cash out of her investment.3
The advantages of a mutual fund should be clear: Unless you are very wealthy, you
cannot buy and manage a 700-stock portfolio on your own, at least not efficiently.
Mutual funds offer investors low-cost diversification and professional management.
For most investors, it’s more efficient to buy a mutual fund than to assemble
a diversified portfolio of stocks and bonds.
Most mutual fund managers also try their best to “beat the market,” that is, to generate
superior performance by finding the stocks with better-than-average returns. Whether
they can pick winners consistently is another question, which we address in Chapter 7.
In exchange for their services, the fund’s managers take out a management fee.
There are also the expenses of running the fund. For Explorer, fees and expenses
absorb about .5% of portfolio value each year. This seems reasonable, but watch out:
The typical mutual fund charges more than Explorer does. In some cases, fees and
expenses add up to 2% per year. That’s a big bite out of your investment return.
Mutual funds are a stop on the road from savings to corporate investment. Suppose
Explorer purchases part of the new issue of shares by Bank of America. Again weThese markets reveal the collective guess of traders on
issues as diverse as New York City snowfall, an avian flu outbreak,
and the occurrence of a major earthquake.
Prediction markets are conducted on a number of online
exchanges such as PredictIt (www.predictit.org) and Iowa Electronic
Markets (tippie.uiowa.edu/iem). Take the 2016 presidential
primaries as an example. On the Iowa Electronic Markets
you could have bet that Donald Trump would win the Republican
nomination by buying one of his contracts. Each Trump
contract promised to pay $1 if he won the nomination and nothing
if he lost. If you thought that the probability of a Trump victory
was 55% (say), you would have been prepared to pay up to
$.55 for his contract. Someone who was relatively pessimistic
about Trump’s chances would have been happy to sell you
such a contract because that sale would turn a profit if he were
to lose. With many participants buying and selling, the market
price of a contract revealed the collective wisdom of the crowd.
Take a look at the accompanying figure from the Iowa
Electronic Markets. It shows the contract prices for the various
contenders for the Republican nomination between JanuaryThe financial manager regularly encounters other financial markets. Here are three
examples, with references to the chapters where they are discussed:
∙ Foreign exchange markets (Chapter 22). Any corporation engaged in international
trade must be able to transfer money back and forth between dollars and other
currencies. Foreign exchange is traded over the counter through a network of the
largest international banks.
∙ Commodities markets (Chapter 24). Dozens of commodities are traded on organized
exchanges, such as the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) or the Intercontinental

silver, platinum, and so on.
∙ Markets for options and other derivatives (Chapters 23 and 24). Derivatives are
securities whose payoffs depend on the prices of other securities or commodities.
For example, you can buy an option to purchase IBM shares at a