s still a 
sophomore at Yale, where he wrote an economics term paper arguing that delivery 
systems were not keeping up with increasing needs for speed and dependability.1
He later joined his stepfather at a struggling equipment and maintenance firm for air 
carriers. He observed firsthand the difficulties of shipping spare parts on short notice. 
He saw the need for an integrated air and ground delivery system with a central hub 
that could connect a large number of points more efficiently than a point-to-point 
delivery system. In 1971, at the age of 27, Smith founded Federal Express.
Like many start-up firms, Federal Express flirted again and again with failure. 
Smith and his family had an inheritance of a few million dollars, but this was far from 
enough. The young company needed to purchase and retrofit a small fleet of aging 
Dassault Falcon jets; build a central-hub facility; and hire and train pilots, delivery, 
and office staff. The initial source of capital was short-term bank loans. Because of the 
company’s shaky financial position, the bank demanded that the planes be used as 
collateral and that Smith personally guarantee the loan with his own money.
In April 1973, the company went live with a fleet of 14 jets, servicing 25 U.S. cities 
out of its Memphis hub. By then, the company had spent $25 million and was effectively flat broke, without enough funds to pay for its weekly delivery of jet fuel. 
In desperation, it managed to acquire a bank loan for $23.7 million. This loan had to be 
backed by a guarantee from General Dynamics, which in return acquired an option to 
buy the company. (Today, General Dynamics must regret that it never exercised 
this option.)
In November of that year, the company finally achieved some financial stability 
when it raised $24.5 million from venture capitalists, investment firms that provide 
funds and advice to young companies in return for a partial ownership share. Eventually, venture capitalists invested about $90 million in Federal Express.
In 1977,