? As the company grew, it raised more funds by borrowing money 
from its banks and by selling publicly traded bonds to investors. At each point, it needed 
to decide on the proper form and terms of financing as well as the amounts to be raised.
In short, FedEx needed to be good at finance. It had a head start over potential 
competitors, but a series of bad financial decisions would have sunk the company. 
No two companies’ histories are the same, but, like FedEx, all successful companies 
must make good investment and financing decisions. And, as with FedEx, those 
decisions range from prosaic and obvious to difficult and strategically crucial.
Let’s widen our discussion. Table 1.1 gives an example of a recent investment and 
financing decision for 11 corporations. Seven are U.S. corporations. Four are foreign: 
Virgin Atlantic’s headquarters are in London, TransCanada’s in Calgary, LVMH’s in 
Paris,2
 and Vale’s in Rio de Janeiro. We have chosen very large public corporations 
that you are likely to be familiar with. You may have flown with Virgin Atlantic, 
shopped at Walmart, or posted a picture on Facebook.
TABLE 1.1 Examples of recent investment and financing decisions by major public corporations
Company Recent Investment Decisions Recent Financing Decisions
Entergy Purchased the Union Power generating station 
near El Dorado, Arkansas, for $948 million.
Entergy’s Arkansas subsidiary issued $325 
million of bonds maturing in 2026.
ExxonMobil Cut total capital investment for 2016 to $34 
billion, down 12% because of plummeting oil 
prices.
Eliminated share repurchases for 2016, thus 
reducing payout to stockholders.
Facebook Spent $60 million to acquire Pebbles, an Israeli 
company developing virtual reality software.
Financed capital investment and acquisitions 
with operating cash flow.
Ford Announced plan to invest $1 billion to build an 
assembly plant in Mexico.
Ford’s credit subsidiary issued $3.5 billion in 
long-term debt.
John Deere Total capital investment fell to $655 million, 
after completing investments for producing 
clean-burning diesel engines.
Maintained credit lines with banks that allowed 
it to borrow up to $7.2 billion.
LVMH Acquired Luxola, a Singapore cosmetics 
e-commerce start-up.
Repaid €750 million in debt issued in 2009 
and 2011.
Procter & Gamble Spent $2.0 billion on research and 
development in 2015.
Spent $4.6 billion to repurchase its comm