re exposed. 
One notorious example was the Ponzi scheme run by the disgraced financier Bernard 
Madoff (pronounced “Made-off ”).13 Individuals and institutions invested around 
$20 billion with Madoff and were told that their investments had grown to $65 billion. 
That figure turned out to be completely fictitious. (It’s not clear what Madoff did with 
all this money, but much of it was apparently paid out to early investors in the scheme to 
create an impression of superior investment performance.) With hindsight, the investors 
should not have trusted Madoff or the financial advisers who steered money to him.
Madoff’s Ponzi scheme was (we hope) a once-in-a-lifetime event. (Ponzi schemes 
pop up frequently, but few have approached the scope and duration of Madoff’s.) 
It was astonishingly unethical and illegal and was bound to end in tears. Needless to 
say, it was not designed to add value for investors.
BEYOND THE PAGE
mhhe.com/brealey9e
Business culture 
and unethical 
behavior
BEYOND THE PAGE
mhhe.com/brealey9e
The Great Albanian 
Ponzi Scheme
12 The quotation is from Warren Buffett’s annual letter to the shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway, March 2008.
13 Ponzi schemes are named after Charles Ponzi, who founded an investment company in 1920 that promised 
investors unbelievably high returns. He was soon deluged with funds from investors in New England, taking in 
$1 million during one 3-hour period. Ponzi invested only about $30 of the money that he raised. But he used part of 
the cash provided by later investors to pay generous dividends to the original investors, thus promoting the illusion 
of high profits and quick payoffs. Within months the scheme collapsed and Ponzi started a 5-year prison sentence.
Without knowing anything about the personal ethics of the owners, which 
company would you trust more to keep its word in a business deal?
a. Harry’s Hardware has been in business for 50 years. Harry’s grandchildren, 
now almost adults, plan to take over and operate the business. Successful 
hardware stores depend on long-term loyal customers.
b. Victor’s Videos just opened for business. It rents a storefront in a strip mall 
and has financed its inventory with a bank loan. Victor has little of his own 
money invested in the business. Video shops usually command little 
customer loyalty.
1.7 Self-Test
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
But sometimes raids can enhance shareholder value. For 
example, in 2012 and 2013, Relational Investors teamed up 
with the California State Teachers’ Retirement System (CSTRS, 
a pension fund) to try to fo