mulated large debts and had also 
guaranteed the debts of other companies in which it had an ownership stake. 
To present a fair view of the firm, Enron should have recognized these potential 
liabilities on its balance sheet. But the firm created and placed paper firms—
so-called special-purpose entities (SPEs)—in the middle of its transactions and 
excluded these liabilities from its financial statements.
The collapse of Enron illustrates how dishonest managers with creamy compensation packages may be tempted to conceal the truth from investors. If the company had 
been more transparent to outsiders—that is, if they could have assessed its true profitability and prospects—its problems would have shown up right away in a falling stock 
price. This in turn would have generated extra scrutiny from security analysts, bond 
rating agencies, lenders, and investors.
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
72
bre22619_ch03_056-085.indd 72 10/07/16 03:18 PM
With transparency, corporate troubles generally lead to corrective action. But the 
top management of a troubled and opaque company may be able to maintain its stock 
price and postpone the discipline of the market. Market discipline caught up with 
Enron only a month or two before bankruptcy.
Enron was not the only company to be mired in accounting scandals in the early 
years of the century. Firms such as Global Crossing, Qwest Communications, and 
WorldCom misstated profits by billions of dollars. Overseas, the Italian dairy company Parmalat falsified the existence of a bank account to the tune of $5.5 billion, and 
the French media and entertainment company Vivendi came close to bankruptcy after 
it was accused of accounting fraud. In response to these scandals, Congress passed the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act, widely known as SOX. A major goal of SOX is to increase transparency and ensure that companies and their accountants provide directors, lenders, 
and shareholders with the information they need to monitor progress.
SOX created the Public Accounting Oversight Board to oversee the auditing of 
public companies; it banned accounting firms from offering other services to companies whose accounts they audit; it prohibited any individual from heading a firm’s 
audit for more than 5 years; and it required that the board’s audit committee consist of 
directors who are independent of the company’s management. Sarbanes-Oxley also 
required that management certify that the financial statements present a fair view of 
the firm’s financial position and demonstrate that the firm has adequate controls and 
procedures for financial reporting. All this has come at a price. Managers and investors worry that the costs of SOX and the burden of meeting detailed, inflexible regulations are pushing some corporations to return from public to private owner