 the firm’s securities. The controller is responsible for preparing 
financial statements and managing budgets. In large firms, a chief financial officer
oversees both the treasurer and the controller and is involved in financial policymaking and 
corporate planning.
Value maximization is the natural financial goal of the firm. Shareholders can invest 
or consume the increased wealth as they wish, provided that they have access to 
well-functioning financial markets.
Companies either can invest in real assets or can return the cash to shareholders, who can 
invest it for themselves. The return that shareholders can earn for themselves is called the 
opportunity cost of capital. Companies create value for shareholders whenever they can 
earn a higher return on their investments than the opportunity cost of capital.
Conflicts of interest between managers and stockholders can lead to agency problems
and agency costs. Agency problems are kept in check by financial controls, by welldesigned compensation packages for managers, and by effective corporate governance.
Shareholders do not want the maximum possible stock price; they want the maximum 
honest price. But there need be no conflict between value maximization and ethical behavior. The surest route to maximum value starts with products and services that satisfy 
customers. A good reputation with customers, employees, and other stakeholders is 
important for the firm’s long-run profitability and value.
Who are the principal 
financial managers in a 
corporation? (LO1-4)
Why does it make sense for 
corporations to maximize 
shareholder wealth? (LO1-5)
What is the fundamental 
trade-off in investment 
decisions? (LO1-5)
How do corporations 
ensure that managers act in 
the interest of stockholders? 
(LO1-6)
Is value maximization 
ethical? (LO1-7)
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Vocabulary Check. Choose the term within the parentheses that best matches each of the 
following descriptions. (LO1-1–LO1-7)
a. Expenditure on research and development (financing decision / investment decision)
b. A bank loan (real asset / financial asset)
c. Listed on a stock exchange (closely held corporation / public corpo