ith that of 
other investors and used to buy safe, short-term securities. You can then write checks 
on this mutual fund investment, just as if you had a bank deposit.
Information Provided by Financial Markets
In well-functioning financial markets, you can see what securities and commodities are 
worth, and you can see—or at least estimate—the rates of return that investors can expect 
on their savings. The information provided by financial markets is often essential to a 
financial manager’s job. Here are three examples of how this information can be used.
Commodity Prices Catalytic converters are used in the exhaust systems of cars and 
light trucks to reduce pollution. The catalysts include platinum, which is traded on the 
New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX).
In March a manufacturer of catalytic converters is planning production for October. 
How much per ounce should the company budget for purchases of platinum in that 
month? Easy: The company’s CFO looks up the futures price of platinum on the New 
York Mercantile Exchange—$972 per ounce for delivery in October (this was the 
closing price for platinum in March 2016, for delivery in October). The CFO can lock 
in that price if she wishes. The details of such a trade are covered in Chapter 24.
Interest Rates The CFO of Catalytic Concepts has to raise $400 million in new 
financing. She considers an issue of long-term bonds. What will the interest rate on the 
bonds be? To find out, the CFO looks up interest rates on existing bonds traded in 
financial markets.
The results are shown in Table 2.2. Notice how the interest rate climbs as credit 
quality deteriorates: The largest, safest companies, which are rated AAA (“triple-A”), 
can raise long-term debt at a 2.59% interest rate. The interest rates for AA, A, and 
BBB rise to 2.62%, 3.03%, and 4.32%, respectively. BBB companies are still regarded 
as investment grade, that is, good quality, but the next step down takes the investor into 
junk bond territory. The interest rate for BB debt climbs to 5.62%. Single-B companies 
are riskier still, so investors demand 8.32%.
There will be more on bond ratings and interest rates in Chapter 6. But you can see 
how a financial manager can use information from fixed-income