heir advantages.10
Profitable firms are those with satisfied customers and loyal employees; firms with 
dissatisfied customers and a disgruntled workforce will probably end up with declining profits and a low stock price.11
Of course, ethical issues do arise in business as in other walks of life. When the 
stakes are high, it is often tempting for managers to cut corners. Laws and regulations 
seek to prevent managers from undertaking dishonest actions. But written rules and 
laws can help only so much. In business, as in other day-to-day affairs, there are also 
BEYOND THE PAGE
mhhe.com/brealey9e
Things are not 
always fair in love 
or business
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 1 Goals and Governance of the Corporation 19
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 19 10/06/16 03:32 PM
unwritten rules of behavior. They are reinforced because good managers know that 
their firm’s reputation is one of its most important assets, and therefore playing fair 
and keeping one’s word are simply good business practices. Thus financial deals are 
regularly sealed by a handshake, and each side knows that the other will not renege 
later if things turn sour.
Reputation is particularly important in finance. If you buy a well-known brand in a 
supermarket, you can be fairly sure of what you are getting. But in financial transactions, the other party often has more information than you, and it is less easy to be sure 
of the quality of what you are buying. Therefore, honest financial firms seek to build 
long-term relationships with their customers and to establish a name for fair dealing 
and financial integrity. Major banks and securities firms protect their reputations.
When something happens to undermine reputations, the costs can be enormous. 
Volkswagen (VW) is a recent case in point. VW had installed secret software that cut 
back pollution from its diesel cars, but only when the cars were tested. Actual pollution in regular driving was much higher—and far in excess of legal maximums. 
Discovery of the software scandal in 2015 caused a tidal wave of opprobrium. VW’s 
stock price dropped by 35%. Its CEO was fired. VW diesel vehicles piled up unsold on 
car dealers’ lots. Potential fines imposed by the U.S. and European governments could 
be enormous. VW set aside $7.3 billion to cover costs and losses, but some analysts 
viewed this amount as much too low.
Charlatans and swindlers sometimes prey on individual investors, especially in 
booming markets. (It’s only “when the tide goes out that you learn who’s been 
swimming naked.”12) The tide went out in 2008 and a number of frauds we