ease the plant and equipment. Other financial analysts work on shortterm finance, managing collection and investment of the company’s cash or checking 
whether customers are likely to pay their bills. Financial analysts are also involved in 
monitoring and controlling risk. For example, they may help to arrange insurance for 
the firm’s plant and equipment, or they may assist with the purchase and sale of 
options, futures, and other exotic tools for managing risk.
Instead of working in the finance department of a corporation, you may join a 
financial institution. The largest employers are banks. Banks collect deposits and 
relend the cash to corporations and individuals. If you join a bank, you may start in a 
branch office, where individuals and small businesses come to deposit cash or to seek 
a loan. You could also work in the head office, helping to analyze a $500 million loan 
to a large corporation.
Banks do many things in addition to lending money, and they probably provide a 
greater variety of jobs than other financial institutions. For example, if you work in the 
cash management department of a large bank, you may help companies to transfer 
huge sums of money electronically as wages, taxes, and payments to suppliers. Banks 
also buy and sell foreign exchange, so you could find yourself working in front of one 
of those computer screens in a foreign exchange trading room. Another glamorous 
bank job is in the derivatives group, which helps companies to manage their risk by 
buying and selling options, futures, and so on. This is where the mathematicians and 
the computer buffs thrive.
Investment banks, such as Goldman Sachs or Morgan Stanley, help companies sell 
their securities to investors. They also have large corporate finance departments that 
assist firms in mergers and acquisitions. When firms issue securities or try to take over 
another firm, a lot of money is at stake and the firms may need to move fast. Thus, 
working for an investment bank can be a high-pressure activity with long hours. It can 
also pay very well.
The insurance industry is another large employer. Much of the insurance industry is 
involved in designing and selling insurance policies on people’s lives and property, but 
businesses are also major customers. So, if you work for an insurance company or a 
large insurance broker, you could find yourself arranging insurance on a Boeing 787 in 
the United States or an oil rig in Indonesia.
Life insurance companies are major lenders to corporations and to investors in commercial real estate. (Life insurance companies deploy the insurance premiums received 
from policyholders into medium- or long-term loans; banks specialize in shorter-term 
financing.) So you could end up negotiating a $50 million loan for construction of a 
new shopping center or investigating the creditworthiness of a family-owned manufacturing company that has applied for a loan to expand production.
Then there is the business of “managing money,” that is, deciding which companies’ shares to invest in or how to balance investment in shares with safer securities, 
such as the bonds (debt securities) issued by the U.S. Treasury. Take mutual funds, for 
example. A mutual fund collects money from individuals and invests in a portfolio of 
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Albert Rodriguez, European Markets Group, 
Major New York Bank
I joined the bank after majoring in finance. I spent the first 
6 months in the bank’s training program, rotating among 
departments. I was assigned to the European markets 
team just before the 2010 Greek crisis, when worries about 
a possible default caused interest rates on Greek government debt to jump to more than 4% above the rate on 
comparable German government debt. Those rates soon 
went much higher! There was a lot of activity, with everyone trying to figure out whether Greece might be forced 
to abandon the euro and how this would affect our business. My job is largely concerned with analyzing economies and assessing the prospects for bank business. 
There are plenty of opportunities to work abroad, and 
I hope to spend some time in Madrid or one of our other 
European offices.
Sherry Solera,