16
Carson Cruz Rubio Trump Rest of field
Price ($)
Source: Iowa Electronic Markets, www.tippie.uiowa.edu/iem/, May 16, 2016.
2016 U.S. Republican Convention Nomination Market
39
bre22619_ch02_032-055.indd 39 10/24/16 03:38 PM
Commodity and derivative markets are not sources of financing but markets where 
the financial manager can adjust the firm’s exposure to business risks. For example, an 
electric generating company may wish to lock in the future price of natural gas by trading in commodity markets, thus eliminating the risk of a sudden jump in the price of 
its raw materials.
Wherever there is uncertainty, investors may be interested in trading, either to speculate or to lay off their risks, and a market may arise to meet that trading demand. In 
recent years, several smaller markets have been created that allow punters to bet on a 
single event. The nearby box discusses how prices in these markets can reveal people’s 
predictions about the future.
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
40 Part One Introduction
bre22619_ch02_032-055.indd 40 10/06/16 03:41 PM
Financial Intermediaries
A financial intermediary is an organization that raises money from investors and 
provides financing for individuals, companies, and other organizations. For corporations, intermediaries are important sources of financing. Intermediaries are a stop on 
the road between savings and real investment.
Why is a financial intermediary different from a manufacturing corporation? First, 
it may raise money in different ways, for example, by taking deposits or selling insurance policies. Second, it invests that money in financial assets, for example, in stocks, 
bonds, or loans to businesses or individuals. In contrast, a manufacturing company’s 
main investments are in plant, equipment, or other real assets.
We will start with two important classes of intermediaries, mutual funds and pension funds.
Mutual funds raise money by selling shares to investors. The investors’ money is 
pooled and invested in a portfolio of securities. Investors can buy or sell shares in 
mutual funds as they please, and initial investments are often $3,000 or less. Vanguard’s Explorer Fund, for example, held a portfolio of more than 700 stocks with a 
market value of about $10 billion in early 2016. An investor in Explorer can increase 
her stake in the fund’s portfolio by buying additional shares, and so gain a higher share 
of the portfolio’s subsequent dividends and price appreciation.2
 She can also sell her 
shares back to the fund if she decides to cash out of her investment.3
The advantages of a mutual fund should be clear: Unless you are very wealthy, you 
cannot buy and manage a 700-stock portfolio on your own, at least not efficiently. 
Mutual funds offer investors low-cost diversification and professional management. For most investors, it’s more efficient to buy a mutual fund than to assemble a diversified portfolio of stocks and bonds.
Most mutual fund managers also try their best to “beat the market,” that is, to generate 
superior performance by finding the stocks with better-than-average returns. Whether 
they can pick winners consistently is another question, which we address in Chapter 7.
In exchange for their services, the fund’s managers take out a management fee. 
There are also the expenses of running the fund. For Explorer, fees and expenses 
absorb about .5% of portfolio value each year. This seems reasonable, but watch out: 
The typical mutual fund charges more than Explorer does. In some cases, fees and 
expenses add up to 2% per year. That’s a big bite out of your investment return.
Mutual funds are a stop on the road from savings to corporate investment. Suppose 
Explorer purchases part of the new issue of shares by Bank of America. Again we 
show the flow of savings to investment by orange arrows:
financial intermediary
An organization that raises 
money from investors and 
provides financing for 
individuals, corporations, 
or other organizations.
mutual funds
An investment company 
that pools the savings of 
many investors and invests 
in a portfolio of securities.
2
 Mutual funds are not corporations but investment companies. They pay no tax, providing that all income from 
dividends and price appreciation is passed on to the funds’ shareholders. The shareholders pay personal tax on 
this income.
3
 Explorer, like most mutual funds, is an open-end fund. It stands ready to issue shares to new investors in the fund and 
to buy back existing shares when its shareholders decide to cash out. The purchase and sale prices depend on the fund’s 
net asset value (NAV) on the day of purchase or redemption. Closed-end funds have a fixed number of shares traded on 
an exchange. If you want to invest in a closed-end fund, you must buy shares from another stockholder in the fund.
BEYOND THE PAGE
mhhe.com/brealey9e
U.S. mutual f