cGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 2 Financial Markets and Institutions 51
bre22619_ch02_032-055.indd 51 10/06/16 03:41 PM
Greece was in the worst shape. It had accumulated €350 billion (about $460 billion) 
of government debt. Greece is a member of the single-currency euro club, so it had no 
control over its currency and could not just print more euros to service its debts. In 
2011 it defaulted on debts totaling €100 billion.
Greece was still on shaky ground in early 2016, despite a series of rescue packages 
from the European Union, the European Central Bank, and the International Monetary 
Fund. Spain, Portugal, Ireland, and other European countries that had also worried 
investors avoided default and seemed to be recovering. But unemployment in many 
European countries remained stubbornly high and economic growth anemic.
What lessons can you, as a student of finance, draw from these financial crises? 
Here are three. First, note the sorry consequences for the economy when financial 
markets and institutions do not carry out the functions described in this chapter. For 
example, the crisis was amplified by the sudden disappearance of liquidity in many 
markets, including the market for MBSs. That meant that potential buyers of the illiquid assets could not know for sure what they were worth. Thus, the informational function of financial markets was also compromised.
Second, why were Bear Stearns, Lehman, Merrill Lynch, and the other distressed 
firms so fragile? One reason is that they were mostly financed with borrowed money, 
much of it short-term debt that had to be refinanced frequently. Investment banks like 
Lehman typically were financed with more than 95% debt and less than 5% equity 
capital. Thus a 5% fall in their asset values could wipe out their equity “cushions” and 
leave the banks insolvent. Regulators since the crisis have therefore required banks to 
finance with much more equity. This requirement has also affected payout to shareholders. A U.S. bank’s dividend payments can be stopped by regulators if the bank’s 
equity capital ratio is not up to snuff. We cover decisions about debt versus equity 
financing and payout in Chapters 16 and 17.
Third, some causes of the crisis can be traced back to agency problems noted in 
Chapter 1. Managers in the mortgage business were probably at least dimly aware that 
promoting and selling massive amounts of subprime MBSs was likely to end badly. 
They didn’t wake up in the morning thinking, “Hey, maybe I can cause a financial 
crisis,” but their incentives did call for trying to squeeze out one more fat bonus before 
the game ended. Their incentives were not aligned with shareholders’. The value of 
their firms suffered accordingly.
SUMMARY
The ultimate source of financing is individuals’ savings. The savings may flow through 
financial markets and intermediaries. The intermediaries include mutual funds