 private firms were allowed for the first time to compete with the Postal 
Service in package delivery. Federal Express responded by expanding its operations. 
It acquired seven Boeing 727s, each with about seven times the capacity of the Falcon 
jets. To pay for these new investments, Federal Express raised about $19 million by 
selling shares of stock to the general public in an initial public offering (IPO). The new 
stockholders became part-owners of the company in proportion to the number of 
shares they purchased.
From this point on, success followed success, and the company invested heavily to 
expand its air fleet as well as its supporting infrastructure. It introduced an automated 
shipping system and a bar-coded tracking system. In 1994, it launched its fedex.com
website for online package tracking. It opened several new hubs across the United 
States as well as in Canada, France, the Philippines, and China. In 2007, FedEx (as the 
company was now called) became the world’s largest airline measured by number of 
planes. FedEx also invested in other companies, capped by the acquisition of Kinko’s 
for $2.4 billion in 2004. By 2016, FedEx had 325,000 employees, annual revenue of 
$49 billion, and a stock market value of almost $40 billion. Its name had become a 
verb—to “FedEx a package” was to ship it overnight.
Even in retrospect, FedEx’s success was hardly a sure thing. Fred Smith’s idea was 
inspired, but its implementation was complex and difficult. FedEx had to make good 
investment decisions. In the beginning, these decisions were constrained by lack of 
financing. For example, used Falcon jets were the only option, given the young company’s precarious financial position. At first it could service only a short list of the 
major cities. As the company grew, its investment decisions became more complex. 
Which type of planes should it buy? When should it expand coverage to Europe and 
1
 Legend has it that Smith received a grade of C on this paper. In fact, he doesn’t remember the grade.
