ifferent tax systems, and special regulations imposed by foreign institutions and 
governments. Finally, we look at risk management and the specialized securities, 
including futures and options, which managers can use to hedge or lay off risks.
That’s enough material to start, but as you reflect on this chapter, you can see 
certain themes emerging that you will encounter again and again throughout this book:
1. Corporate finance is about adding value.
2. The opportunity cost of capital sets the standard for investments.
3. A safe dollar is worth more than a risky one.
4. Smart investment decisions create more value than smart financing decisions.
5. Good governance matters.
1.9 Snippets of Financial History
Now let’s lighten up a little. In this book we are going to describe how financial 
decisions are made today. But financial markets also have an interesting history. Look 
at the nearby box, which lays out bits of this history, starting in prehistoric times, when 
the growth of bacteria anticipated the mathematics of compound interest, and continuing nearly to the present. We have keyed each of these episodes to the chapter of the 
book that discusses its topic.
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
undertaking of great advantage but nobody to know what it 
is.” Within 5 hours he had raised £2,000; within 6 hours he 
was on his way out of the country. Readers nearly two centuries later could only wonder at the naïve or foolhardy 
investors in these ventures—that is, until they had a chance 
to participate in the follies unearthed by the financial crisis 
of 2008–2009. (Chapter 2)
1792 Formation of the New York Stock Exchange The New 
York Stock Exchange (NYSE) was founded in 1792 when a 
group of brokers met under a buttonwood tree* and 
arranged to trade shares with one another at agreed rates 
of commission. Today the NYSE is the largest stock 
exchange in the world, trading on average about 1.5 billion 
shares a day. (Chapter 7)
1929 Stock Market Crashes Common stocks are risky investments. In September 1929 stock prices in the United 
States reached an all-time high, and the economist Irving 
Fisher forecast that they were at “a permanently high plateau.” Some 3 years later, stock prices were almost 90% 
lower, and it was to be a quarter of a century before the 
prices of September 1929 were seen again. Eighty years 
later, history came close to repeating itself. After stock 
prices peaked in July 2007, they slumped over the next 20 
months by 54%. (Chapter 11)
1960s Eurodollar Market In the 1950s the Soviet Union transferred its dollar holdings from the United States to a 
Russian-owned bank in Paris. This bank was best known 
by its telex address, eurobank, and consequently dollars 
held outside the United States came to be known as eurodollars. In the 1960s, U.S. taxes and regulation made it 
much cheaper to borrow and lend dollars in Europe than in 
the United States, and a huge market in eurodollars arose. 
(Chapter 14)
1971 Corporate Bankruptcies Every generation of investors 
is shocked and surprised by a major corporate bankruptcy. 
In 1971 the Penn Central Railroad, a pillar of American 
industry, suddenly collapsed. At that time, it was the largest corporate bankruptcy in history. In 2008, the investment bank Lehman Brothers smashed Penn Central’