 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 3 Accounting and Finance 71
bre22619_ch03_056-085.indd 71 10/07/16 03:18 PM
investors. Investors worry about the fact that some companies seem particularly prone 
to inflate their earnings by playing fast and loose with accounting practice. They refer 
to such companies as having “low-quality” earnings, and they place a correspondingly 
lower value on the firms’ stock.
Here are some examples of ambiguities in accounting rules that have been used by 
companies to conceal unflattering information:
∙ Revenue recognition. As we saw earlier, firms record a sale when it is made, not 
when the customer actually pays. But the date of sale is not always obvious. 
Suppose it is November and you are concerned that if your firm does not meet its 
sales target, you can forget about your annual bonus. You contact your main 
customers, and they agree to increase their December orders as long as they have 
the right to return any unsold goods. Your firm then books these shipments as 
“sales,” even though there is a high likelihood that many of the goods will be 
returned. That is almost certainly illegal and will get you into serious trouble. 
But suppose instead that you tell your customers that the price of your product 
may rise in the new year and suggest that they place an extra order in December. 
This practice, known as “channel stuffing,” increases this year’s sales at the 
expense of next year’s sales.
 Many companies have been thought to use channel stuffing to overstate their 
earnings, but very blatant instances are liable to attract the SEC’s attention. 
For example, in 2002 the pharmaceutical giant, Bristol Myers Squibb, disclosed 
that wholesalers were holding hundreds of millions of dollars in excessive 
inventories of its products and the company’s earnings for 2002 might be just half 
of its 2001 earnings as wholesalers worked down these inventories. Following an 
investigation by the SEC, the company agreed to pay $150 million to settle 
accusations that this channel stuffing had improperly inflated its sales and earnings. 
In Chapter 1, we mentioned Hewlett-Packard’s disastrous acquisition of the British 
company Autonomy. Hewlett-Packard paid $11.1 billion for Autonomy. Just over a 
year later, it wrote down the value of the company by $8.8 billion, alleging that 
Autonomy had used channel stuffing to greatly inflate its revenues.
∙ Cookie-jar reserves. The giant mortgage-pass-through firm Freddie Mac earned the 
Wall Street nickname “Steady Freddie” for its unusually smooth and predictable 
pattern of earnings growth, at least until 2008 when it suddenly collapsed in the 
wake of the meltdown in subprime mortgages. Unfortunately, it emerged in 2003 
that Freddie achieved this predictability in part by misusing its reserve accounts. 
Normally, such accounts are intended to allow for the likely impact of events 
that might reduce earnings, such as the failure of customers to pay their bills. 
But Freddie seemed to “overreserve” against such contingencies so that it could 
“release” those reserves and bolster income in a bad year. Its steady growth was 
largely a matter of earnings management.
∙ Off–balance sheet assets and liabilities. Before its bankruptcy in 2001 (at that time, 
the second largest in U.S. history), Enron had accu