Transporting Cash across Time
Individuals need to transport expenditures in time. If you have money now that you 
wish to save for a rainy day, you can (for example) put the money in a savings account 
at a bank and withdraw it with interest later. If you don’t have money today, say to buy 
a car, you can borrow money from the bank and pay off the loan later. Modern finance 
provides a kind of time machine. Lenders transport money forward in time; borrowers 
transport it back. Both are happier than if they were forced to spend income as it 
arrives. Of course, individuals are not alone in needing to raise cash from time to time. 
Firms with good investment opportunities, but a shortage of internally generated cash, 
raise cash by borrowing or selling new shares. Many governments run deficits and 
finance current outlays by issuing debt.
Young people saving for retirement may transport their current earnings 30 or 40 
years into the future by means of a pension fund. They can even transport income to 
their heirs by purchase of a life insurance policy.
In principle, individuals or firms with cash surpluses could take out newspaper 
advertisements or surf the web looking for counterparties with cash shortages. But it is 
usually cheaper and more convenient to use financial markets and intermediaries. It is 
not just a matter of avoiding the cost of searching for the right counterparty. Follow-up 
is needed. For example, banks don’t just lend money and walk away. They monitor the 
borrower to make sure that the loan is used for its intended purpose and that the borrower’s credit stays solid.
Risk Transfer and Diversification
Financial markets and intermediaries allow investors and businesses to reduce 
and reallocate risk. Insurance companies are an obvious example. When you buy 
homeowner’s insurance, you greatly reduce the risk of loss from fire, theft, or accidents. But your policy is not a very risky bet for the insurance company. It diversifies 
by issuing thousands of policies, and it expects losses to average out over the policies.13
The insurance company allows you to pool risk with thousands of other homeowners.
Investors should diversify too. For example, you can buy shares in a mutual fund 
that holds hundreds of stocks. In fact, you can buy index funds that invest in all the 
stocks in the popular market indexes. For example, the Vanguard 500 Index Fund holds 
the stocks in the Standard & Poor’s Composite stock market index. (The “S&P 500” 
tracks the performance of the largest U.S. stocks. It is the index most used by professional investors.) If you buy this fund, you are insulated from the company-specific 
risks of the 500 companies in the ind