. 
Which one will they choose? (LO1-5)
22. Cost of Capital. British Quince comes across an average-risk investment project that offers a 
rate of return of 9.5%. This is less than the company’s normal rate of return, but one of Quince’s 
directors notes that the company can easily borrow the required investment at 7%. “It’s 
simple,” he says. “If the bank lends us money at 7%, then our cost of capital must be 7%. 
The project’s return is higher than the cost of capital, so let’s move ahead.” How would you 
respond? (LO1-5)
23. Cost of Capital. In a stroke of good luck, your company has uncovered an opportunity to invest 
for 10 years at a guaranteed 6% rate of return. How would you determine the opportunity cost of 
capital for this investment? (LO1-5)
24. Cost of Capital. Pollution Busters Inc. is considering a purchase of 10 additional carbon 
sequesters for $100,000 apiece. The sequesters last for only 1 year before becoming saturated. 
Then the carbon is sold to the government. (LO1-5)
a. Suppose the government guarantees the price of carbon. At this price, the payoff after 1 year 
is $115,000 for sure. How would you determine the opportunity cost of capital for this 
investment?
b. Suppose instead that the sequestered carbon has to be sold on the London Carbon Exchange. 
Carbon prices have been extremely volatile, but Pollution Busters’ CFO learns that average 
rates of return from investments on that exchange have been about 20%. She thinks this is a 
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 29 10/06/16 03:32 PM
Chapter 1 Goals and Governance of the Corporation 29
reasonable forecast for the future. What is the opportunity cost of capital in this case? Is the 
purchase of additional sequesters a worthwhile capital investment?
25. Goals of the Firm. It is sometimes suggested that instead of seeking to maximize shareholder 
value and, in the process, pursuing profit, the firm should seek to maximize the welfare of all its 
stakeholders, such as its employees, its customers, and the community in which it operates. 
How far would this objective conflict with one of maximizing shareholder value? Do you think 
such an objective is feasible or desirable? (LO1-5)
26. Agency Issues. Many firms have devised defenses that make it much more costly or difficult for 
other firms to take them over. How might such takeover defenses affect the firm’s agency problems? Are managers of firms with formidable takeover defenses more or less likely to act in the 
firm’s interest rather than their own? (LO1-6)
27. Agency Issues. Sometimes lawyers work on a contingency basis. They collect a percentage of 
their clients’ settlements instead of receiving fixed fees. Why might clients prefer this arrangement? Would the arrangement mitigate an agency problem? Explain. (LO1-6)
28. Agency Issues. One of the “Finance through the Ages” episodes that we cited is the 1993 
collapse of Barings Bank, when one of its traders lost $1.3 billion. Traders are compensated in 
large part according to their trading profits. How might this practice have contributed to an 
agency problem? (LO1-6)
29. Agency Issues. When a company’s stock is widely held, it may not pay an individual shareholder to spend time monitoring managers’ performance and trying to replace poor performers. 
Explain why. Do you think that a bank that has made a large loan to the company is in a different 
position? (LO1-6)
30. Agency Issues. Company A pays its managers a fixed salary. Company B ties compensation to 
the performance of the stock. Which company’s compensation package would most effectively 
mitigate conflicts of interest between managers and shareholders? (LO1-6)
31. Corporate Governance. How do clear and comprehensive financial reports promote effective 
corporate governance? (LO1-6)
32. Corporate Governance. Some commentators have claimed that the U.S. system of corporate 
governance is “broken” and needs thorough reform. What do you think? Do you see systematic 
failures in corporate governance or just a few “bad apples”? (LO1-6)
33. Agency Issues. Which of the following forms of compensation is most likely to align the interests of managers and shareholders? (LO1-6)
a. A fixed salary
b. A salary linked to company profits
c. A salary that is paid partly in the form of the company’s shares
34. Agency Costs. What are agency costs? List some ways by which agency costs are mitigated. 
(LO1-6)
35. Reputation. As you drive down a deserted