lions of shares, receive millions of 
votes, and have a correspondingly large stake in the firm’s performance.
Public shareholders cannot possibly manage or control the corporation directly. 
Instead, they elect a board of directors, who in turn appoint the top managers and 
monitor their performance. This separation of ownership and control gives corporations 
permanence. Even if managers quit or are dismissed, the corporation survives. Today’s 
stockholders can sell all their shares to new investors without disrupting the operations 
of the business. Corporations can, in principle, live forever, and in practice they may 
survive many human lifetimes. One of the oldest corporations is the Hudson’s Bay 
Company, which was formed in 1670 to profit from the fur trade between northern 
Canada and England. The company still operates as one of Canada’s leading retail chains.
The separation of corporate ownership and control can also have a downside, for it 
can open the door for managers and directors to act in their own interests rather than in 
the stockholders’ interest. We return to this problem later in the chapter.
There are other disadvantages to being a corporation. One is the cost, in both time 
and money, of managing the corporation’s legal machinery. These costs are particularly burdensome for small businesses.
There is also an important tax drawback to corporations in the United States. 
Because the corporation is a separate legal entity, it is taxed separately. So corporations pay tax on their profits, and shareholders are taxed again when they receive 
dividends from the company or sell their shares at a profit. By contrast, income generated by businesses that are not incorporated is taxed just once as personal income.6
Other Forms of Business Organization
Corporations do not have to be prominent, multinational businesses such as those 
listed in Table 1.1. You can organize a local plumbing contractor or barber shop as a 
corporation if you want to take the trouble. But most corporations are larger 
BEYOND THE PAGE
mhhe.com/brealey9e
S-corporations
that you raise cash by selling other assets—your car or house, for example—in order to repay 
the loan. But if you incorporate the restaurant business, and then the corporation borrows 
from the bank, your other assets are shielded from the restaurant’s debts. Of course, 
incorporation also means that the bank will be more cautious in lending, because the bank 
will have no recourse to your other assets.5
Notice that if you incorporate your business, you excha