issue is known as a primary issue,
and it is sold in the primary market. But in addition to helping companies raise new 
cash, financial markets also allow investors to trade securities among themselves. For 
example, Smith might decide to raise some cash by selling her Apple stock at the same 
time that Jones invests his spare cash in Apple. The result is simply a transfer of ownership from Smith to Jones, which has no effect on the company itself. Such purchases 
and sales of existing securities are known as secondary transactions, and they take 
place in the secondary market. Notice that Smith and Jones might be less happy for 
Apple to raise new capital and invest in long-term projects if they could not sell their 
stock in the secondary market when they needed the cash for personal use.
Stock markets are also called equity markets because stockholders are said to own 
the common equity of the firm. You will hear financial managers refer to the capital 
structure decision as “the choice between debt and equity financing.”
Now may be a good time to stress that the financial manager plays on a global stage 
and needs to be familiar with markets around the world. For example, Apple’s stock is 
traded on the NASDAQ market and also in Germany on the Deutsche Börse. China 
Telecom, Deutsche Bank, Ferrari, Novartis, Petrobras (Brazil), Sony, Unilever, Manchester United football club, and more than 500 other overseas firms have listed their 
shares on the NYSE. We return to the trading and pricing of shares in Chapter 7.
financial market
Market where securities 
are issued and traded.
primary market
Market for the sale of new 
securities by corporations.
secondary market
Market in which previously 
issued securities are 
traded among investors.
FIGURE 2.2 Flow of savings to 
investment for a large, public 
corporation. Savings come from 
investors worldwide. The savings 
may flow through financial 
markets or financial intermediaries. 
The corporation also reinvests on 
shareholders’ behalf.
Stock markets
Fixed-income markets
Money markets
Financial Markets
Mutual Funds
Pension funds
Financial
Intermediaries
Banks
Insurance companies
Financial Institutions
Investors
Worldwide Investment
in real assets
Corporation
Reinvestment
BEYOND THE PAGE
mhhe.com/brealey9e
Stock exchanges: 
From clubs to 
commercial 
businesses
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?d