at aspire to grow. Small “mom-and-pop” businesses are 
usually organized as sole proprietorships.
What about the middle ground? What about businesses that grow too large for sole 
proprietorships but don’t want to reorganize as corporations? For example, suppose 
you wish to pool money and expertise with some friends or business associates. 
You can form a partnership and enter into a partnership agreement that sets out 
how decisions are to be made and how profits are to be split up. Partners, like sole 
proprietors, face unlimited liability. If the business runs into difficulties, each partner 
can be held responsible for all the business’s debts.
Partnerships have a tax advantage. Partnerships, unlike corporations, do not have 
to pay income taxes. The partners pay personal income taxes on their shares of 
the profits.
Some businesses are hybrids that combine the tax advantage of a partnership with 
the limited liability advantage of a corporation. In a limited partnership, partners 
are classified as general or limited. General partners manage the business and have 
unlimited personal liability for its debts. Limited partners are liable only for the money 
they invest and do not participate in management.
Many states allow limited liability partnerships (LLPs) or limited liability companies (LLCs). These are partnerships in which all partners have limited liability. 
Another variation on the theme is the professional corporation (PC), which is 
commonly used by doctors, lawyers, and accountants. In this case, the business 
has limited liability, but the professionals can still be sued personally, for example, 
for malpractice.
Most large investment banks such as Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs started 
life as partnerships. But eventually these companies and their financing requirements 
grew too large for them to continue as partnerships, and they reorganized as corporations. The partnership form of organization does not work well when ownership is 
widespread and separation of ownership and management is essential.
1.3 Who Is the Financial Manager?
What do financial managers do for a living? That simple question can be answered in 
several ways. We can start with financial managers’ job titles. Most large corporations 
have a chief financial officer (CFO), who oversees the work of all financial staff. 
As you can see from Figure 1.1, the CFO is deeply involved in financial policy and 
financial planning and is in constant contact with the chief executive officer (CEO) 
and other top management. The CFO is the most important financial voice of the 
corporation and explains earnings results and forecasts to investors and the media.
chief financial officer (CFO)
Supervises all financial 
functions and sets overall 
financial strategy.
Treasurer
Responsible for:
Cash management
Raising of capital
Banking relationships
Controller
Responsible for:
Preparation of financial statements
Accounting
Taxes
Chief Financial Ocer (CFO)
Responsible for:
Financial policy
Corporate planning
FIGURE 1.1 Financial managers in large corporations
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 1 Goals and Governance of the Corporation 11
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd