of the tunnel under the English Channel. This 
started in 1986 and was completed in 1994 at a total cost 
of $15 billion. The cost of the Gorgon natural gas project in 
Australia is estimated at $54 billion. (Chapters 8, 9)
1988 Mergers The 1980s saw a wave of takeovers culminating in the $25 billion takeover of RJR Nabisco. Over a 
Date unknown Compound Growth Bacteria start to propagate by subdividing. They thereby demonstrate the power 
of compound growth. (Chapter 5)
c. 1800 b.c. Interest Rates In Babylonia, Hammurabi’s Code 
established maximum interest rates on loans. Borrowers 
often mortgaged their property and sometimes their 
spouses, but lenders were obliged to return spouses in 
good condition within 3 years. (Chapter 6)
c. 1000 b.c. Options One of the earliest recorded options is 
described by Aristotle. The philosopher Thales knew by 
the stars that there would be a great olive harvest, so, having a little money, he bought options for the use of olive 
presses. When the harvest came, Thales was able to rent 
the presses at great profit. Today financial managers need 
to be able to evaluate options to buy or sell a wide variety 
of assets. (Chapter 23)
15th century International Banking Modern international 
banking had its origins in the great Florentine banking 
houses. But the entire European network of the Medici 
empire employed only 57 people in eight offices. Today 
the London-based bank HSBC has around 260,000 
employees in 71 different countries. (Chapter 14)
1650 Futures Futures markets allow companies to protect 
themselves against fluctuations in commodity prices. 
During the Tokugawa era in Japan, feudal lords collected 
rents in the form of rice, but often they wished to trade 
their future rice deliveries. Rice futures therefore came to 
be traded on what was later known as the Dojima Rice 
Market. Rice futures are still traded, but now companies 
can also trade in futures on a range of items from pork bellies to stock market indexes. (Chapter 24)
17th century Joint Stock Corporations Although investors 
have for a long time combined together as joint owners 
of an enterprise, the modern corporation with a large number of stockholders originated with the formation in England 
of trading firms like the East India Company (est. 1599). 
(Chapter 15)
17th century Money America has been in the forefront in the 
development of new types of money. Early settlers often 
used a shell known as wampum. For example, Peter 
Stuyvesant raised a loan in wampum, and in Massachusetts it was legal tender. Unfortunately, the enterprising 
settlers found that with a little dy