isis
BEYOND THE PAGE
mhhe.com/brealey9e
Time line of the 
financial crisis
BEYOND THE PAGE
mhhe.com/brealey9e
The rise and fall of 
Lehman Brothers
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
50
bre22619_ch02_032-055.indd 50 10/24/16 03:38 PM
Few developed economies escaped the crisis. As well as suffering from a collapse in 
their own housing markets, a number of foreign banks had made large investments in 
U.S. subprime mortgages and had to be rescued by their governments. Many European 
governments were already heavily in debt and, as the cost of the bank bailouts mounted, 
investors began to worry about the ability of the governments to repay their debts. 
Thus in Europe, the banking crisis became entwined with a sovereign debt crisis.
The invention of MBSs also made mortgages liquid. They 
are actively traded among banks, insurance companies, 
mutual funds, pension funds, and endowments.
The MBS market has grown explosively. With the growth 
came more and more complexity. Issuers were not content 
with the simple pass-through MBS described earlier. They 
issued complicated packages of securities called tranches.
The most senior tranches were given first call on all cash 
flows from the mortgage portfolio and were viewed as almost 
risk-free. Bond-rating agencies gave their highest, triple-A ratings to the senior tranches, even for MBSs based on subprime mortgages for homeowners with weak credit. Many 
investors in triple-A tranches lost a lot of money in the crisis of 
2007–2009. We discuss bond ratings in Chapter 6.
The MBS market survived. It is still by far the largest source 
of mortgage financing. By 2015, the aggregate MBSs outstanding exceeded $2 trillion. MBSs are part of a broader 
market for asset-backed securities, which include securities 
that work like MBSs but are based on portfolios of other types 
of assets, including car loans, bank loans to businesses, and 
financing for commercial real estate.
Mortgage-backed securities (MBSs) provide another example of how financial markets convey savings to finance 
investment in real assets. In this case, the real assets 
are homes, which homeowners finance in part with mortgage loans.
In the old days—the 1960s, for example—most mortgage 
loans were made by local banks, savings banks, and savings 
and loan institutions (S&Ls), which accepted deposits and savings accounts and made mortgage and other local loans. We 
will use an S&L as the example. The flow of savings would be 
as described by the figure in Panel a, at the bottom of this box.
The typical mortgage was long term, up to 30 years maturity, with a fixed interest rate. The S&Ls’ liabilities—chiefly savings accounts—had much shorter maturities, perhaps a year 
o