 
this debt. If the business loses money and cannot pay the bank, then the bank can demand 
Example 1.1 ⊲
Which of the following are financial assets, and which are real assets?
a. A patent.
b. A share of stock issued by Wells Fargo Bank.
c. A blast furnace in a steelmaking factory.
d. A mortgage loan taken out to help pay for a new home.
e. After a successful advertising campaign, potential customers trust FedEx to 
deliver packages promptly and reliably.
f. An IOU (“I owe you”) from your brother-in-law.
1.2 Self-Test
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 1 Goals and Governance of the Corporation 9
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 9 10/06/16 03:32 PM
When a corporation is first established, its shares may be privately owned by a 
small group of investors, perhaps the company’s managers and a few backers. In this 
case, the shares are not publicly traded and the company is closely held. Eventually, 
when the firm grows and new shares are issued to raise additional capital, its shares 
are traded in public markets such as the New York Stock Exchange. Such corporations 
are known as public companies. Most well-known corporations in the United States 
are public companies with widely dispersed shareholdings. In other countries, it is 
more common for large corporations to remain in private hands, and many public 
companies may be controlled by just a handful of investors.
A large public corporation may have hundreds of thousands of shareholders, who 
together own the business. An individual may have 100 shares, receive 100 votes, and 
be entitled to a tiny fraction of the firm’s income and value. On the other hand, a 
pension fund or insurance company may own mil