ors 
who could best bear the risk, many banks kept large quantities of the loans on their 
own books or sold them to other banks.
The widespread availability of mortgage finance fueled a dramatic increase in 
house prices, which doubled in the 5 years ending June 2006. At that point, prices 
started to slide and homeowners began to default on their mortgages. A year later, 
Bear Stearns, a large investment bank, announced huge losses on the mortgage investments that were held in two of its hedge funds. By the spring of 2008, Bear Stearns 
was on the verge of bankruptcy, and the U.S. Federal Reserve arranged for it to be 
acquired by JPMorgan Chase.
The crisis peaked in September 2008, when the U.S. government was obliged to take 
over the giant federal mortgage agencies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, both of which 
had invested several hundred billion dollars in subprime mortgage-backed securities. 
Over the next few days, the financial system started to melt down. Both Merrill Lynch 
and Lehman Brothers were in danger of failing. On September 14, the government 
arranged for Bank of America to take over Merrill in return for financial guarantees. 
However, it did nothing to rescue Lehman Brothers, which filed for bankruptcy protection the next day. Two days later, the government reluctantly lent $85 billion to the 
giant insurance company AIG, which had insured huge volumes of mortgage-backed 
securities and other bonds against default. The following day, the Treasury unveiled its 
first proposal to spend $700 billion to purchase “toxic” mortgage-backed securities.
After the failure of Lehman and the forced rescues of Bear Stearns, Fannie Mae, Freddie 
Mac, Merrill Lynch, and AIG, investors and financial institutions had to ask, “Who will 
be next? Do I dare trade with or lend money to Bank X?” In many situations, the cautious 
answer was “No.” Customary day-to-day financial transactions were canceled or completed on onerous terms.19 At the same time, trading in MBSs and other hard-to-value 
securities dried up; it therefore became even harder to know what these securities were 
worth. As banks and other financial institutions became reluctant to trade securities or 
lend to one another, the supply of credit to the economy contracted and business investment was cut back. The U.S. economy suffered one of its worst setbacks since the Great 
Depression. Unemployment rose rapidly and business bankruptcies tripled.
2.4
18 With a so-called option ARM loan, the minimum mortgage payment was often not even sufficient to cover 
that month’s interest on the loan. The unpaid interest was then added to the amount of the mortgage, so the 
homeowner was burdened by an ever-increasing mortgage that one day would need to be paid off.
19  The interest rate on interbank loans rose in 2008 to 4.6% above the rate on U.S. Treasury debt. The normal 
spread over Treasuries is less than .5%.
BEYOND THE PAGE
mhhe.com/brealey9e
Housing prices in 
the financial cr