overnance can’t work unless outside investors 
get detailed, up-to-date information. If a firm is transparent—if investors can see its true 
profitability and prospects—then problems will show up right away in a falling stock 
price. That in turn generates extra scrutiny from security analysts, bond rating agencies, 
and banks and other lenders, who keep an eagle eye on the progress of their borrowers.
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) sets accounting and reporting standards for public companies. We cover accounting and finance in Chapter 3.
Chapter 1 is not the right place for a worldwide tour of corporate governance. But be 
aware that governance laws, regulations, and practice vary. The differences are more 
dramatic in continental Europe and Japan than in Canada, the United Kingdom, Australia, and other English-speaking countries. In Germany, for example, banks often control 
large blocks of stock and can push hard for changes in the management or strategy of 
poorly performing companies. (Banks in the United States are prohibited from large or 
permanent holdings of the stock of nonfinancial corporations.) Large German firms also 
have two boards of directors: the supervisory board (Aufsichtsrat) and the management 
board (Vorstand). Half of the supervisory board’s members are elected by employees. 
Some French firms also have two boards, one including employee representatives.
1.6 The Ethics of Maximizing Value
Shareholders want managers to maximize the market value of their shares. But perhaps this begs the question: Is it desirable for managers to act in the narrow, selfish 
interest of their shareholders? Does a focus on shareholder value mean that the managers must act as greedy mercenaries riding roughshod over widows and orphans?
Most of this book is devoted to financial policies that increase value. None of these 
policies requires galloping over widows and orphans. In most instances, there is little 
conflict between doing well (maximizing value) and doing good. The first step in doing 
well is doing good by your customers. Here is how Adam Smith put the case in 1776:
It is not from the benevolence of the butcher, the brewer, or the baker, that we expect our 
dinner, but from their regard to their own interest. We address ourselves, not to their humanity 
but to their self-love, and never talk to them of our own necessities but of t