McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 1 Goals and Governance of the Corporation 23
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 23 10/06/16 03:32 PM
are making a first acquaintance with financial management. Chapter 2 is an overview 
of financial markets and institutions. Chapter 3 reviews the basic concepts of accounting, and Chapter 4 demonstrates the techniques of financial statement analysis.
We have said that the financial manager’s task is to make investment and financing 
decisions that add value for the firm’s shareholders. But that statement opens up a 
treasure chest of follow-up questions that will occupy us from Chapter 4 onward:
∙ How do I calculate the value of a stream of future cash flows? A dollar that you 
receive today is worth more than the promise of a dollar in 10 or 20 years’ time. 
So, when measuring the effect of a new project on firm value, the financial manager 
needs to recognize the timing of the cash flows. In Chapters 5 through 10, we show 
how to calculate the present value of an investment that produces a stream of future 
cash flows. We begin by calculating the present value of bonds and stocks and then 
look at how to value the cash flows resulting from capital investment projects. Present 
value is a workhorse concept of corporate finance that shows up in almost every chapter.
∙ How do I measure risk? In Chapters 5 through 10, we largely ignore the issue of 
risk. But risky cash flows are less valuable than safe ones. In Chapters 11, 12, and 
13, we look at how to measure risk and how it affects present values.
∙ Where does financing come from? Broadly speaking, it comes from borrowing or from 
cash invested or reinvested by stockholders. But financing can get complicated when 
you get down to specifics. Chapter 14 gives an overview of the sources of finance. 
Chapters 15, 16, and 17 then look at how companies sell their securities to investors, 
the choice between debt and equity, and the decision to pay out cash to stockholders.
∙ How do I ensure that the firm’s financial decisions add up to a sensible whole?
There are two parts to this question. The first is concerned with making sure that the 
firm can finance its future growth strategy. This is the role of long-term planning. 
The second is concerned with ensuring that the firm has a sensible plan for managing 
and financing its short-term assets such as cash, inventories, and money due from 
customers. We cover long- and short-term planning in Chapters 18, 19, and 20.
∙ What about some of those other responsibilities of the financial manager that you 
mentioned earlier? Not all of the financial manager’s responsibilities can be 
classified simply as an investment decision or a financing decision. In Chapters 21 
through 24, we review four such topics. First we look at mergers and acquisitions. 
Then we consider international financial management. All the financial problems 
of doing business at home are