nd, the savings flow through financial markets, financial intermediaries, or both. Suppose, for example, that Bank of America raises $900 million by a 
new issue of shares. An Italian investor buys 4,000 of the new shares for $15 per share. 
Now Bank of America takes that $60,000, along with money raised by the rest of the 
issue, and makes a $300 million loan to Apple. The Italian investor’s savings end up 
flowing through financial markets (the stock market), to a financial intermediary (Bank 
of America), and finally to Apple.
Of course, our Italian friend’s $60,000 doesn’t literally arrive at Apple in an envelope marked “From L. DaVinci.” Investments by the purchasers of the Bank of 
America’s stock issue are pooled, not segregated. Signor DaVinci would own a share 
of all of Bank of America’s assets, not just one loan to Apple. Nevertheless, investors’ 
savings are flowing through the financial markets and the bank to finance Apple’s 
capital investments.
FIGURE 2.1 Flow of savings 
to investment in a closely held 
corporation. Investors use 
savings to buy additional shares. 
Investors also save when the 
corporation reinvests on their 
behalf.
Investment
in real assets
Corporation
Shareholders
in closely
held corporation
Cash raised from Investors
share issues
Cash
reinvested
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 2 Financial Markets and Institutions 37
bre22619_ch02_032-055.indd 37 10/06/16 03:41 PM
The Stock Market
A financial market is a market where securities are issued and traded. A security is 
just a traded financial asset, such as a share of stock. For a corporation, the stock market is probably the most important financial market.
As corporations grow, their requirements for outside capital can expand dramatically. At some point the firm will decide to “go public” by issuing shares on an organized exchange such as the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) or NASDAQ; that first 
issue is called an initial public offering or IPO. The buyers of the IPO are helping to 
finance the firm’s investment in real assets. In return, the buyers become part-owners 
of the firm and participate in its future success or failure. (Most investors in the Internet IPOs of 1999 and 2000 are by now sorely disappointed, but many IPOs pay off 
handsomely. If only we had bought Apple shares on their IPO day in 1980 . . .) Of 
course a corporation’s IPO is not its last chance to issue shares. For example, Bank of 
America went public in the 1930s, but it could make a new issue of shares tomorrow.
A new issue of shares increases both the amount of cash held by the company and 
the number of shares held by the public. Such an 