Transporting Cash across Time
Individuals need to transport expenditures in time. If you have money now that you 
wish to save for a rainy day, you can (for example) put the money in a savings account 
at a bank and withdraw it with interest later. If you don’t have money today, say to buy 

raise cash by borrowing or selling new shares. Many governments run deficits and 
finance current outlays by issuing debt.
Young people saving for retirement may transport their current earnings 30 or 40 
years into the future by means of a pension fund. They can even transport income to 
their heirs by purchase of a life insurance policy.
In principle, individuals or firms with cash surpluses could take out newspaper 
advertisements or surf the web looking for counterparties with cash shortages. But it is 
usually cheaper and more convenient to use financial markets and intermediaries. It is 
not just a matter of avoiding the cost of searching for the right counterparty. Follow-up 
is needed. For example, banks don’t just lend money and walk away. They monitor the 
borrower to make sure that the loan is used for its intended purpose and that the borrower’s credit stays solid.
Risk Transfer and Diversification
Financial markets and intermediaries allow investors and businesses to reduce 
and reallocate risk. Insurance companies are an obvious example. When you buy 
homeowner’s insurance, you greatly reduce the risk of loss from fire, theft, or accidents. But your policy is not a very risky bet for the insurance company. It diversifies 
by issuing thousands of policies, and it expects losses to average out over the policies.13
The insurance company allows you to pool risk with thousands of other homeowners.
Investors should diversify too. For example, you can buy shares in a mutual fund 
that holds hundreds of stocks. In fact, you can buy index funds that invest in all the 
stocks in the popular market indexes. For example, the Vanguard 500 Index Fund holds 
the stocks in the Standard & Poor’s Composite stock market index. (The “S&P 500” 
tracks the performance of the largest U.S. stocks. It is the index most used by professional investors.) If you buy this fund, you are insulated from the company-specific 
risks of the 500 companies in the index. These risks are averaged out by diversification. Of course you are still left with the risk that the level of the stock market as a 
whole will fall. In fact, we will see in Chapter 11 that investors are mostly concerned 
with market risk, not the specific risks of individual companies.
Index mutual funds are one way to invest in widely diversified portfolios at low 
cost. Another route is provided by exchange-traded funds (ETFs), which are portfolios 
of stocks that can be bought or sold in a single trade. For example, Standard & Poor’s 
Depositary Receipts (SPDRs, or “spiders”) invest in portfolios that match Standard & 
Poor’s stock market indexes. The total amount invested in the spider that tracks the 
benchmark S&P 500 index was $134 billion in early 2016.
ETFs are in some ways more efficient than mutual funds. To buy or sell an ETF, 
you simply make a trade, just as if you bought or sold shares of stock.14  This is 
13 Unfortunately for insurance companies, the losses don’t always average out. Hurricanes and earthquakes can 
damage thousands of homes at once. The potential losses are so great that property insurance companies buy 
reinsurance against such catastrophes.
14 ETFs are in this respect like closed-end mutual funds (see footnote 3). But ETFs do not have managers with 
the discretion to try to “pick winners.” ETF portfolios are tied down to indexes or fixed baskets of securities. 
ETF issuers make sure that the ETF price tracks the price of the underlying index or basket.
BEYOND THE PAGE
mhhe.com/brealey9e
How ETFs work
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
46 Part One Introduction
bre22619_ch02_032-055.indd 46 10/06/16 03:41 PM
different from investing in an open-end mutual fund. In that case you have to send 
money to the fund in exchange for newly issued shares. And, if you want to withdraw 

Fortunately, no dating service is needed: Each can trade in commodity markets, the 
farmer as a seller and the baker as a buyer.
Liquidity
Markets and intermediaries also provide liquidity, that is, the ability to turn an investment back into cash when needed. Suppose you deposit $5,000 in a savings bank on 
February 1. During that month, the bank uses your deposit and other new deposits to 
make a 6-month construction loan to a real estate developer. On March 1, you realize 
that you need your $5,000 back. The bank can give it to you. Because the bank has 
thousands of depositors, and other sources of financing if necessary, it can make an 
illiquid loan to the developer financed by liquid deposits made by you and other customers. If you lend your money for 6 months directly to the real estate developer, you 
will have a hard time retrieving it 1 month later.15
The shares of public companies are liquid because they are traded more or less continuously in the stock market. An Italian investor who puts $60,000 into Bank of 
America shares can recover that money on short notice. (A $60,000 sell order is a drop 
in the bucket compared with the normal trading volume of Bank of America shares.) 
Mutual funds can redeem their shares for cash on short notice because the funds invest 
in traded securities, which can be sold as necessary.
Of course, liquidity is a matter of degree. Foreign exchange markets for major currencies are exceptionally liquid. Bank of America or Deutsche Bank could buy $200 million 
worth of yen or euros in the blink of an eye, with hardly any effect on foreign exchange 
rates. U.S. Treasury securities are also very liquid, and the shares of the largest companies on the major international stock exchanges are only slightly less so.
Liquidity is most important when you’re in a hurry. If you try to sell $500,000 
worth of the shares of a small, thinly traded company all at once, you will probably 
knock down the price to some extent. If you’re patient and don’t surprise other investors with a large, sudden sell order, you may be able to unload your shares on better 
terms. It’s the same problem that you may face in selling real estate. A house or condominium is not a liquid asset in a panic sale. If you’re determined to sell in an afternoon, you’re not going to get full value.
The Payment Mechanism
Think how inconvenient life would be if you had to pay for every purchase in cash or 
if Boeing had to ship truckloads of hundred-dollar bills around the country to pay its 
suppliers. Checking accounts, credit cards, and electronic transfers allow individuals 
liquidity
The ability to sell an asset 
on short notice at close to 
the market value.
15 Of course, the bank can’t repay all depositors simultaneously. To do so, it would have to sell off its loans to 

and firms to send and receive payments quickly and safely over long distances. Banks 
are the obvious providers of payment services, but they are not alone. For example, if 
you buy shares in a money market mutual fund, your money is pooled with that of 
other investors and used to buy safe, short-term securities. You can then write checks 
on this mutual fund investment, just as if you had a bank deposit.
Information Provided by Financial Markets
In well-functioning financial markets, you can see what securities and commodities are 
worth, and you can see—or at least estimate—the rates of return that investors can expect 
on their savings. The information provided by financial markets is often essential to a 
financial manager’s job. Here are three examples of how this information can be used.
Commodity Prices Catalytic converters are used in the exhaust systems of cars and 
light trucks to reduce pollution. The catalysts include platinum, which is traded on the 
New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX).
In March a manufacturer of catalytic converters is planning production for October. 
How much per ounce should the company budget for purchases of platinum in that 
month? Easy: The company’s CFO looks up the futures price of platinum on the New 
York Mercantile Exchange—$972 per ounce for delivery in October (this was the 
closing price for platinum in March 2016, for delivery in October). The CFO can lock 
in that price if she wishes. The details of such a trade are covered in Chapter 24.
Interest Rates The CFO of Catalytic Concepts has to raise $400 million in new 
financing. She considers an issue of long-term bonds. What will the interest rate on the 
bonds be? To find out, the CFO looks up interest rates on existing bonds traded in 
financial markets.
The results are shown in Table 2.2. Notice how the interest rate climbs as credit 
quality deteriorates: The largest, safest companies, which are rated AAA (“triple-A”), 
can raise long-term debt at a 2.59% interest rate. The interest rates for AA, A, and 
BBB rise to 2.62%, 3.03%, and 4.32%, respectively. BBB companies are still regarded 
as investment grade, that is, good quality, but the next step down takes the investor into 
junk bond territory. The interest rate for BB debt climbs to 5.62%. Single-B companies 
are riskier still, so investors demand 8.32%.
There will be more on bond ratings and interest rates in Chapter 6. But you can see 
how a financial manager can use information from fixed-income markets to forecast 
the interest rate on new debt financing. For example, if Catalytic Concepts can qualify 
as a BBB-rated company, and interest rates are as shown in Table 2.2, it should be able 
to raise new debt financing for approximately 4.32%.
Company Values How much was Callaway Golf worth in March 2016? How about 
Alaska Air Group, Entergy, Yum! Brands, or GE? Table 2.3 shows the market capitalization of each company. We simply multiply the number of shares outstanding by the 
price per share in the stock market. Investors valued Callaway Golf at $821 million 
and GE at $283 billion.
TABLE 2.2 Interest rates on 
long-term corporate bonds, 
March 2016. The interest rate is 
lowest for top-quality (AAA) 
issuers. The rate rises as credit 
quality declines.
Credit Rating Interest Rate
AAA 2.59%
AA 2.62
A 3.03
BBB 4.32
BB 5.62
B 8.32
Source: Thomson Reuters.
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
48 Part One Introduction
bre22619_ch02_032-055.indd 48 10/06/16 03:41 PM
Stock prices and company values summarize investors’ collective assessment 
of how well a company is doing, both its current performance and its future prospects. Thus an increase in stock price sends a positive signal from investors to 
managers.16 That is why top management’s compensation is linked to stock prices. A 
manager who owns shares in his or her company will be motivated to increase the 
company’s market value. This reduces agency costs by aligning the interests of managers and stockholders.
This is one important advantage of going public. A private company can’t use its 
stock price as a measure of performance. It can still compensate managers with shares, 
but the shares will not be valued in a financial market.
Cost of Capital Financial managers look to financial markets to measure, or at 
least estimate, the cost of capital for the firm’s investment projects. The cost of capital 
is the minimum acceptable rate of return on the project. Investment projects offering 
rates of return higher than their cost of capital are worthwhile because they add value; 
they make both the firm and its shareholders better off financially. Projects offering 
rates of return less than the cost of capital subtract value and should not be 
undertaken.17
Thus the hurdle rate for investments inside the corporation is actually set outside 
the corporation. The expected rate of return on investments in financial markets determines the opportunity cost of capital.
The opportunity cost of capital is generally not the interest rate that the firm pays on 
a loan from a bank or insurance company. If the company is making a risky investment, the opportunity cost of capital is the expected rate of return that investors can 
achieve in financial markets at the same level of risk. The expected rate of return on 
risky securities is normally well above the interest rate on corporate borrowing.
We introduced the cost of capital in Chapter 1, but this brief reminder may help to 
fix the idea. We cover the cost of capital in detail in Chapters 11 and 12.
cost of capital
Minimum acceptable rate 
of return on capital 
investment.
TABLE 2.3 Calculating the 
market capitalization of Callaway 
Golf and other companies in 
March 2016. (Shares and market 
values in millions. Ticker symbols 
in parentheses.)
Number of Shares × Stock Price =
Market Capitalization  
($ millions)
Callaway Golf (ELY) 93.8 × $8.76 = $821
Alaska Air Group (ALK) 124.7 × $80.77 = $10,074
Entergy (ETR) 178.5 × $75.92 = $13,551
Yum! Brands (YUM) 408.7 × $77.77 = $31,875
General Electric (GE) 9,331.0 × $30.34 = $283,091
Source: Yahoo! Finance, finance.yahoo.com.
16 We can’t claim that investors’ assessments of value are always correct. Finance can be a risky and dangerous 
business—dangerous for your wealth, that is. With hindsight we see horrible mistakes by investors, for example, 
the gross overvaluation of Internet and telecom companies in 2000. On average, however, it appears that financial markets collect and assess information quickly and accurately. We’ll discuss this issue again in Chapter 7.
17 Of course, the firm may invest for other reasons. For example, it may invest in pollution control equipment for 
a factory. The equipment may not generate a cash return but may still be worth investing in to meet legal and 
ethical obligations.
Which of the functions described in this section require financial markets? 
Explain briefly.
2.4 Self-Test
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 2 Financial Markets and Institutions 49
bre22619_ch02_032-055.indd 49 10/06/16 03:41 PM
The Crisis of 2007–2009
The financial crisis of 2007–2009 raised many questions, but it settled one question 
conclusively: Yes, financial markets and institutions are important. When financial 
markets and institutions ceased to operate properly, the world was pushed into a global 
recession.
The financial crisis had its roots in the easy-money policies that were pursued by 
the U.S. Federal Reserve and other central banks following the collapse of the Internet 
and telecom stock bubble in 2000. At the same time, large balance-of-payments surpluses in Asian economies were invested back into U.S. debt securities. This also 
helped to push down interest rates and contribute to lax credit.
Banks took advantage of this cheap money to expand the supply of subprime mortgages to low-income borrowers. Many banks tempted would-be homeowners with low 
initial payments, offset by significantly higher payments later.18 (Some home buyers 
were betting on escalating housing prices so that they could resell or refinance before 
the higher payments kicked in.) One lender is even said to have advertised what it 
dubbed its “NINJA” loan—NINJA standing for “No Income, No Job, and No Assets.” 
Most subprime mortgages were then packaged together into mortgage-backed securities (MBSs) that could be resold. But, instead of selling these securities to investors 
who could best bear the risk, many banks kept large quantities of the loans on their 
own books or sold them to other banks.
The widespread availability of mortgage finance fueled a dramatic increase in 
house prices, which doubled in the 5 years ending June 2006. At that point, prices 
started to slide and homeowners began to default on their mortgages. A year later, 
Bear Stearns, a large investment bank, announced huge losses on the mortgage investments that were held in two of its hedge funds. By the spring of 2008, Bear Stearns 
was on the verge of bankruptcy, and the U.S. Federal Reserve arranged for it to be 
acquired by JPMorgan Chase.
The crisis peaked in September 2008, when the U.S. government was obliged to take 
over the giant federal mortgage agencies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, both of which 
had invested several hundred billion dollars in subprime mortgage-backed securities. 
Over the next few days, the financial system started to melt down. Both Merrill Lynch 
and Lehman Brothers were in danger of failing. On September 14, the government 
arranged for Bank of America to take over Merrill in return for financial guarantees. 
However, it did nothing to rescue Lehman Brothers, which filed for bankruptcy protection the next day. Two days later, the government reluctantly lent $85 billion to the 
giant insurance company AIG, which had insured huge volumes of mortgage-backed 
securities and other bonds against default. The following day, the Treasury unveiled its 
first proposal to spend $700 billion to purchase “toxic” mortgage-backed securities.
After the failure of Lehman and the forced rescues of Bear Stearns, Fannie Mae, Freddie 
Mac, Merrill Lynch, and AIG, investors and financial institutions had to ask, “Who will 
be next? Do I dare trade with or lend money to Bank X?” In many situations, the cautious 
answer was “No.” Customary day-to-day financial transactions were canceled or completed on onerous terms.19 At the same time, trading in MBSs and other hard-to-value 
securities dried up; it therefore became even harder to know what these securities were 
worth. As banks and other financial institutions became reluctant to trade securities or 
lend to one another, the supply of credit to the economy contracted and business investment was cut back. The U.S. economy suffered one of its worst setbacks since the Great 
Depression. Unemployment rose rapidly and business bankruptcies tripled.
2.4
18 With a so-called option ARM loan, the minimum mortgage payment was often not even sufficient to cover 
that month’s interest on the loan. The unpaid interest was then added to the amount of the mortgage, so the 
homeowner was burdened by an ever-increasing mortgage that one day would need to be paid off.
19  The interest rate on interbank loans rose in 2008 to 4.6% above the rate on U.S. Treasury debt. The normal 
spread over Treasuries is less than .5%.
BEYOND THE PAGE
mhhe.com/brealey9e
Housing prices in 
the financial crisis
BEYOND THE PAGE
mhhe.com/brealey9e
Time line of the 
financial crisis
BEYOND THE PAGE
mhhe.com/brealey9e
The rise and fall of 
Lehman Brothers
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
50
bre22619_ch02_032-055.indd 50 10/24/16 03:38 PM
Few developed economies escaped the crisis. As well as suffering from a collapse in 
their own housing markets, a number of foreign banks had made large investments in 
U.S. subprime mortgages and had to be rescued by their governments. Many European 
governments were already heavily in debt and, as the cost of the bank bailouts mounted, 
investors began to worry about the ability of the governments to repay their debts. 
Thus in Europe, the banking crisis became entwined with a sovereign debt crisis.
The invention of MBSs also made mortgages liquid. They 
are actively traded among banks, insurance companies, 
mutual funds, pension funds, and endowments.
The MBS market has grown explosively. With the growth 
came more and more complexity. Issuers were not content 
with the simple pass-through MBS described earlier. They 
issued complicated packages of securities called tranches.
The most senior tranches were given first call on all cash 
flows from the mortgage portfolio and were viewed as almost 
risk-free. Bond-rating agencies gave their highest, triple-A ratings to the senior tranches, even for MBSs based on subprime mortgages for homeowners with weak credit. Many 
investors in triple-A tranches lost a lot of money in the crisis of 
2007–2009. We discuss bond ratings in Chapter 6.
The MBS market survived. It is still by far the largest source 
of mortgage financing. By 2015, the aggregate MBSs outstanding exceeded $2 trillion. MBSs are part of a broader 
market for asset-backed securities, which include securities 
that work like MBSs but are based on portfolios of other types 
of assets, including car loans, bank loans to businesses, and 
financing for commercial real estate.
Mortgage-backed securities (MBSs) provide another example of how financial markets convey savings to finance 
investment in real assets. In this case, the real assets 
are homes, which homeowners finance in part with mortgage loans.
In the old days—the 1960s, for example—most mortgage 
loans were made by local banks, savings banks, and savings 
and loan institutions (S&Ls), which accepted deposits and savings accounts and made mortgage and other local loans. We 
will use an S&L as the example. The flow of savings would be 
as described by the figure in Panel a, at the bottom of this box.
The typical mortgage was long term, up to 30 years maturity, with a fixed interest rate. The S&Ls’ liabilities—chiefly savings accounts—had much shorter maturities, perhaps a year 
or two on average. The S&Ls were therefore “borrowing 
short, lending long,” a dangerous investment strategy. When 
interest rates rose in the 1970s and 1980s, the S&Ls’ interest 
costs on savings accounts rose, too, but their interest income 
was locked up in long-term, fixed-rate mortgages. Losses 
mounted. The S&L crisis of the 1980s followed.*
The invention of the MBS allowed S&Ls to eliminate the risks 
of borrowing short and lending long. You can still get a mortgage 
from your local S&L, but now the S&L does not have to keep it. 
The S&L originates the mortgage, but will probably resell it to an 
MBS issuer—for example, Fannie Mae (Federal National Mortgage Association or FNMA†) or Bank of America. The issuer combines your mortgage with hundreds or thousands of others and 
issues an MBS backed by the combined portfolio. The MBS is 
sold to investors such as life insurance companies that want to 
hold long-term, fixed-rate obligations. Cash flows from the mortgage portfolio are passed through to investors.‡
Suppose a life insurance company purchases an MBS. The 
flow of savings would now match the figure in Panel b.
Finance in Practice Mortgage-Backed Securities
*For a history of the crisis, see Edward J. Kane, The S&L Insurance Mess: How 
Did It Happen? (Washington, D.C.: Urban Institute Press, 1989).
†Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) are 
government-sponsored entities (GSEs) charged with increasing the availability 
of mortgage credit. The GSEs purchase “conforming loans” and package and 
resell them as MBSs. Nonconforming loans—for example, large, “jumbo” 
mortgages—are packaged by banks such as Citigroup or Bank of America.
‡ You still send monthly payments to your local S&L. The S&L extracts a small 
servicing fee and sends your payments along to the MBS issuer, which also 
extracts a small servicing fee. Net cash flows from the portfolio
bre22619_fm_i-1.indd 1 11/03/16 06:49 PM
Fundamentals of
Corporate Finance
Ninth EDITION
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
2
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 2 10/06/16 03:32 PM
1
R E L AT E D W E B S I T E S F O R T H I S C H A P T E R C A N B E 
FOUND IN CONNECT.
CHAPTER
Goals and 
Governance of 
the Corporation
LEARNING OBJECTIVES
After studying this chapter, you should be able to:
1-1 Give examples of the investment and financing decisions that 
financial managers make.
1-2 Distinguish between real and financial assets.
1-3 Cite some of the advantages and disadvantages of organizing 
a business as a corporation.
1-4 Describe the responsibilities of the CFO, treasurer, and 
controller.
1-5 Explain why maximizing market value is the natural financial 
goal of the corporation.
1-6 Understand what is meant by “agency problems,” and cite 
some of the ways that corporate governance helps mitigate 
agency problems.
1-7 Explain why unethical behavior does not maximize market 
value.
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
3
PART ONE Introduction
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 3 10/06/16 03:32 PM
To grow from small beginnings to a major corporation, FedEx needed to make good investment and financing decisions.
Frank Kovalchek via Alaskan Dude/Flickr/CC BY 2.0
To carry on business, a corporation needs an 
almost endless variety of assets. Some are tangible assets such as plant and machinery, office 
buildings, and vehicles; others are intangible assets 
such as brand names and patents. Corporations finance 
these assets by borrowing, by reinvesting profits back 
into the firm, and by selling additional shares to the 
firm’s shareholders.
Financial managers, therefore, face two broad questions. First, what investments should the corporation 
make? Second, how should it pay for these investments? 
Investment decisions spend money. Financing decisions raise money for investment.
We start this chapter with examples of recent investment and financing decisions by major U.S. and foreign 
corporations. We review what a corporation is and 
describe the roles of its top financial managers. We then 
turn to the financial goal of the corporation, which is 
usually expressed as maximizing value, or at least 
adding value. Financial managers add value whenever 
the corporation can invest to earn a higher return than 
its shareholders can earn for themselves.
But managers are human beings; they cannot be 
perfect servants who always and everywhere maximize 
value. We will consider the conflicts of interest that 
arise in large corporations and how corporate governance helps to align the interests of managers and 
shareholders.
If we ask managers to maximize value, can the corporation also be a good citizen? Won’t the managers be 
tempted to try unethical or illegal financial tricks? They 
may sometimes be tempted, but wise managers realize 
that such tricks are not just dishonest; they almost 
always destroy value, not increase it. More challenging 
are the gray areas where the line between ethical and 
unethical financial actions is hard to draw.
Finally, we look ahead to the rest of this book and look 
back to some entertaining snippets of financial history.
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
4 Part One Introduction
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 4 10/06/16 03:32 PM
1.1 Investment and Financing Decisions
Fred Smith is best known today as the founder of FedEx. But in 1965 he was still a 
sophomore at Yale, where he wrote an economics term paper arguing that delivery 
systems were not keeping up with increasing needs for speed and dependability.1
He later joined his stepfather at a struggling equipment and maintenance firm for air 
carriers. He observed firsthand the difficulties of shipping spare parts on short notice. 
He saw the need for an integrated air and ground delivery system with a central hub 
that could connect a large number of points more efficiently than a point-to-point 
delivery system. In 1971, at the age of 27, Smith founded Federal Express.
Like many start-up firms, Federal Express flirted again and again with failure. 
Smith and his family had an inheritance of a few million dollars, but this was far from 
enough. The young company needed to purchase and retrofit a small fleet of aging 
Dassault Falcon jets; build a central-hub facility; and hire and train pilots, delivery, 
and office staff. The initial source of capital was short-term bank loans. Because of the 
company’s shaky financial position, the bank demanded that the planes be used as 
collateral and that Smith personally guarantee the loan with his own money.
In April 1973, the company went live with a fleet of 14 jets, servicing 25 U.S. cities 
out of its Memphis hub. By then, the company had spent $25 million and was effectively flat broke, without enough funds to pay for its weekly delivery of jet fuel. 
In desperation, it managed to acquire a bank loan for $23.7 million. This loan had to be 
backed by a guarantee from General Dynamics, which in return acquired an option to 
buy the company. (Today, General Dynamics must regret that it never exercised 
this option.)
In November of that year, the company finally achieved some financial stability 
when it raised $24.5 million from venture capitalists, investment firms that provide 
funds and advice to young companies in return for a partial ownership share. Eventually, venture capitalists invested about $90 million in Federal Express.
In 1977, private firms were allowed for the first time to compete with the Postal 
Service in package delivery. Federal Express responded by expanding its operations. 
It acquired seven Boeing 727s, each with about seven times the capacity of the Falcon 
jets. To pay for these new investments, Federal Express raised about $19 million by 
selling shares of stock to the general public in an initial public offering (IPO). The new 
stockholders became part-owners of the company in proportion to the number of 
shares they purchased.
From this point on, success followed success, and the company invested heavily to 
expand its air fleet as well as its supporting infrastructure. It introduced an automated 
shipping system and a bar-coded tracking system. In 1994, it launched its fedex.com
website for online package tracking. It opened several new hubs across the United 
States as well as in Canada, France, the Philippines, and China. In 2007, FedEx (as the 
company was now called) became the world’s largest airline measured by number of 
planes. FedEx also invested in other companies, capped by the acquisition of Kinko’s 
for $2.4 billion in 2004. By 2016, FedEx had 325,000 employees, annual revenue of 
$49 billion, and a stock market value of almost $40 billion. Its name had become a 
verb—to “FedEx a package” was to ship it overnight.
Even in retrospect, FedEx’s success was hardly a sure thing. Fred Smith’s idea was 
inspired, but its implementation was complex and difficult. FedEx had to make good 
investment decisions. In the beginning, these decisions were constrained by lack of 
financing. For example, used Falcon jets were the only option, given the young company’s precarious financial position. At first it could service only a short list of the 
major cities. As the company grew, its investment decisions became more complex. 
Which type of planes should it buy? When should it expand coverage to Europe and 
1
 Legend has it that Smith received a grade of C on this paper. In fact, he doesn’t remember the grade.
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 1 Goals and Governance of the Corporation 5
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 5 10/06/16 03:32 PM
Asia? How many operations hubs should it build? What computer and tracking systems were necessary to keep up with the increasing package volume and geographic 
coverage? Which companies should it acquire as it expanded its range of services?
FedEx also needed to make good financing decisions. For example, how should it 
raise the money it needed for investment? In the beginning, these choices were limited 
to family money and bank loans. As the company grew, its range of choices expanded. 
Eventually it was able to attract funding from venture capitalists, but this posed new 
questions. How much cash did the firm need to raise from the venture capitalists? How 
big a share in the firm would the venture capitalists demand in return? The initial public 
offering of stock prompted similar questions. How many shares should the company try 
to sell? At what price? As the company grew, it raised more funds by borrowing money 
from its banks and by selling publicly traded bonds to investors. At each point, it needed 
to decide on the proper form and terms of financing as well as the amounts to be raised.
In short, FedEx needed to be good at finance. It had a head start over potential 
competitors, but a series of bad financial decisions would have sunk the company. 
No two companies’ histories are the same, but, like FedEx, all successful companies 
must make good investment and financing decisions. And, as with FedEx, those 
decisions range from prosaic and obvious to difficult and strategically crucial.
Let’s widen our discussion. Table 1.1 gives an example of a recent investment and 
financing decision for 11 corporations. Seven are U.S. corporations. Four are foreign: 
Virgin Atlantic’s headquarters are in London, TransCanada’s in Calgary, LVMH’s in 
Paris,2
 and Vale’s in Rio de Janeiro. We have chosen very large public corporations 
that you are likely to be familiar with. You may have flown with Virgin Atlantic, 
shopped at Walmart, or posted a picture on Facebook.
TABLE 1.1 Examples of recent investment and financing decisions by major public corporations
Company Recent Investment Decisions Recent Financing Decisions
Entergy Purchased the Union Power generating station 
near El Dorado, Arkansas, for $948 million.
Entergy’s Arkansas subsidiary issued $325 
million of bonds maturing in 2026.
ExxonMobil Cut total capital investment for 2016 to $34 
billion, down 12% because of plummeting oil 
prices.
Eliminated share repurchases for 2016, thus 
reducing payout to stockholders.
Facebook Spent $60 million to acquire Pebbles, an Israeli 
company developing virtual reality software.
Financed capital investment and acquisitions 
with operating cash flow.
Ford Announced plan to invest $1 billion to build an 
assembly plant in Mexico.
Ford’s credit subsidiary issued $3.5 billion in 
long-term debt.
John Deere Total capital investment fell to $655 million, 
after completing investments for producing 
clean-burning diesel engines.
Maintained credit lines with banks that allowed 
it to borrow up to $7.2 billion.
LVMH Acquired Luxola, a Singapore cosmetics 
e-commerce start-up.
Repaid €750 million in debt issued in 2009 
and 2011.
Procter & Gamble Spent $2.0 billion on research and 
development in 2015.
Spent $4.6 billion to repurchase its common 
stock.
TransCanada Announced purchase of Columbia Pipeline 
Group for $10.2 billion.
Will pay Columbia shareholders in cash and also 
assume $2.8 billion of existing Columbia debt.
Vale Started up the Caue Itabiritos iron-ore project 
after capital investment of $927 million.
Announced plan to issue at least $750 million 
of 30-year debt.
Virgin Atlantic Airlines Ordered 12 new Airbus A350-1000 planes. Used value of its landing slots at London’s 
Heathrow Airport as collateral for a £220 
million bond issue.
Walmart Announced plans to open more than 200 new 
stores in 2016.
Raised its annual dividend to $2.00 a share.
2
 LVMH (Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton) markets perfumes and cosmetics, wines and spirits, leather goods, 
watches, and other luxury products. And, yes, we know what you are thinking, but “LVMH” really is short 
for “Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton.”
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
6 Part One Introduction
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 6 10/06/16 03:32 PM
Take a look at the decisions now. We think you will agree that they appear 
sensible—at least there is nothing obviously wrong with them. But if you are new to 
finance, it may be difficult to think about why these companies made these decisions 
and not others.
The Investment (Capital Budgeting) Decision
Investment decisions, such as those shown in Table 1.1, are also called capital 
budgeting or capital expenditure (CAPEX) decisions. Some of the investments in 
the table, such as Walmart’s new stores or Virgin Atlantic’s new planes, involve 
tangible assets—assets that you can touch and kick. Others involve intangible assets, 
such as research and development (R&D), advertising, and the design of computer 
software. For example, major pharmaceutical manufacturers invest billions every year 
on R&D for new drugs.
Most of the investments in Table 1.1 have long-term consequences. For example, 
the planes acquired by Virgin Atlantic may still be flying 20 or 30 years from now. 
Other investments may pay off in only a few months. For example, with the approach 
of the Christmas holidays, Walmart spends nearly $50 billion to stock up its warehouses and retail stores. As the goods are sold over the following months, the company 
recovers its investment in these inventories.
The world of business can be intensely competitive, and corporations prosper only 
if they can keep launching new products or services. In some cases, the costs and risks 
of doing so are amazingly large. For example, the cost of developing the Gorgon 
natural gas field in Australia has been estimated at $54 billion. It’s not surprising that 
this cost is being shared among several major energy companies. But do not think of 
companies as making billion-dollar investments on a daily basis. Most investment 
decisions are smaller, such as the purchase of a truck, machine tool, or computer 
system. Corporations make thousands of such investments each year. The cumulative 
amount of these small expenditures can be just as large as the occasional jumbo investments, such as those shown in Table 1.1.
Not all investments succeed. In October 2011 Hewlett-Packard (HP) paid $11.1 
billion to acquire the British software company Autonomy. Just 13 months later, 
HP wrote down the value of this investment by $8.8 billion. HP claimed that it was 
misled by improper accounting at Autonomy. Nevertheless, the Autonomy acquisition 
was a disastrous investment for HP. HP’s CEO was fired in short order.
There are no free guarantees in finance. But you can tilt the odds in your favor if 
you learn the tools of investment analysis and apply them intelligently. We cover these 
tools in detail later in this book.
The Financing Decision
The financial manager’s second main responsibility is to raise the money that the firm 
requires for its investments and operations. This is the financing decision. When a 
company needs to raise money, it can invite investors to put up cash in exchange for a 
share of future profits, or it can promise to pay back the investors’ cash plus a fixed 
rate of interest. In the first case, the investors receive shares of stock and become 
shareholders, part-owners of the corporation. The investors in this case are referred to 
as equity investors, who contribute equity financing. In the second case, the investors 
are lenders, that is, debt investors, who one day must be repaid. The choice between 
debt and equity financing is often called the capital structure decision. Here “capital” 
refers to the firm’s sources of long-term financing. A firm that is seeking to raise longterm financing is said to be “raising capital.”
Notice the essential difference between the investment and financing decisions. 
When the firm invests, it acquires real assets, which are then used to produce the 
firm’s goods and services. The firm finances its investment in real assets by issuing 
financial assets to investors. A share of stock is a financial asset, which has value as a 
capital budgeting or capital 
expenditure (CAPEX) decision
Decision to invest in 
tangible or intangible 
assets.
financing decision
Decision on the sources 
and amounts of financing.
real assets
Assets used to produce 
goods and services.
financial assets
Financial claims to the 
income generated by the 
firm’s real assets.
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 1 Goals and Governance of the Corporation 7
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 7 10/06/16 03:32 PM
claim on the firm’s real assets and on the income that those assets will produce. 
A bank loan is a financial asset also. It gives the bank the right to get its money back plus 
interest. If the firm’s operations can’t generate enough income to repay the bank, the 
bank can force the firm into bankruptcy and stake a claim on its real assets. Financial 
assets that can be purchased and traded by investors in public markets are called securities. The shares of stock issued by the public corporations in Table 1.1 are all securities. 
Entergy’s 10-year bond in Table 1.1 is a security. But a bank loan from JPMorgan to 
Entergy is not called a security unless the bank resells the loan to public investors.
The firm can issue an almost endless variety of financial assets. Suppose it decides 
to borrow. It can issue debt to investors, or it can borrow from a bank. It can borrow for 
1 year or 20 years. If it borrows for 20 years, it can reserve the right to pay off the debt 
early if interest rates fall. It can borrow in Paris, receiving and promising to repay 
euros, or it can borrow dollars in New York. (As Table 1.1 shows, Ford chose to borrow U.S. dollars, but it could have borrowed euros or Japanese yen instead.)
In some ways, financing decisions are less important than investment decisions. 
Financial managers say that “value comes mainly from the investment side of the balance sheet.” Also, the most successful corporations sometimes have the simplest 
financing strategies. Take Microsoft as an example. It is one of the world’s most valuable corporations. In early 2016, Microsoft shares traded for $53 each. There were 7.91 
billion shares outstanding. Therefore Microsoft’s market value—its market capitalization or market cap—was 53 × 7.91 = $419 billion. Where did this market value come 
from? It came from Microsoft’s products, from its brand name and worldwide customer base, from its R&D, and from its ability to make profitable future investments. 
It did not come from sophisticated financing. Microsoft’s financing strategy is very 
simple: It finances almost all investment by retaining and reinvesting operating cash flow.
Financing decisions may not add much value compared to good investment decisions, but they can destroy value if they are stupid or ambushed by bad news. For 
example, when a consortium of investment companies bought the energy giant TXU in 
2007, the company took on an additional $40 billion in debt. This may not have been a 
stupid decision, but it did prove fatal. The consortium did not foresee the expansion of 
shale gas production and the resulting sharp fall in natural gas and electricity prices, 
and in April 2014 the company (renamed Energy Future Holdings) was bankrupt.
We have emphasized the financial manager’s responsibility for two decisions:
The investment decision = purchase of real assets
The financing decision = sale of financial assets
But this is an oversimplification because the financial manager is also involved in many 
other day-to-day activities that are essential to the smooth operation of a business. 
Are the following capital budgeting or financing decisions? (Hint: In one case the 
answer is “both.”)
a. Intel decides to spend $7 billion to develop a new microprocessor factory.
b. BMW borrows 350 million euros (€350 million) from Deutsche Bank.
c. Royal Dutch Shell constructs a pipeline to bring natural gas onshore from a 
production platform in Australia.
d. Avon spends €200 million to launch a new range of cosmetics in European 
markets.
e. Pfizer issues new shares to buy a small biotech company.
1.1 Self-Test
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
8 Part One Introduction
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 8 10/06/16 03:32 PM
For example, if the firm sells goods or services on credit, it needs to make sure that its 
customers pay on time. Corporations that operate internationally must constantly transfer cash from one currency to another. And the manager must keep an eye on the risks 
that the firm runs and ensure that they don’t land the firm in a pickle.
3
 In the United States, corporations are identified by the label “Corporation,” “Incorporated,” or “Inc.,” as in 
Caterpillar Inc. The United Kingdom identifies public corporations by “plc” (short for “Public Limited 
Corporation”). French corporations have the suffix “SA” (“Société Anonyme”). The corresponding labels in 
Germany are “GmbH” (“Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung”) and “AG” (“Aktiengesellschaft”).
4
 “Shareholder” and “stockholder” mean exactly the same thing and are used interchangeably.
1.2 What Is a Corporation?
We have been referring to “corporations.” But before going too far or too fast, we need 
to offer some basic definitions.
A corporation is a distinct, permanent legal entity. Suppose you decide to create a 
new corporation.3
 You would work with a lawyer to prepare articles of incorporation,
which set out the purpose of the business and how it is to be financed, managed, and 
governed. These articles must conform to the laws of the state in which the business is 
incorporated. For many purposes, the corporation is considered a resident of its state. 
For example, it can enter into contracts, borrow or lend money, and sue or be sued. 
It pays its own taxes (but it cannot vote!).
A corporation’s owners are called shareholders or stockholders.4
 The shareholders 
do not directly own the business’s real assets (factories, oil wells, stores, etc.). Instead 
they have indirect ownership via financial assets (the shares of the corporation).
A corporation is legally distinct from the shareholders. Therefore, the shareholders 
have limited liability and cannot be held personally responsible for the corporation’s 
debts. When the U.S. financial corporation Lehman Brothers failed in 2008, no one 
demanded that its stockholders put up more money to cover Lehman’s massive debts. 
Shareholders can lose their entire investment in a corporation, but no more.
corporation
A business organized as a 
separate legal entity 
owned by stockholders.
limited liability
The owners of a 
corporation are not 
personally liable for its 
obligations.
Business Organization
Suppose you buy a building and open a restaurant. You have invested in the building itself, 
kitchen equipment, dining-room furnishings, plus various other assets. If you do not incorporate, you own these assets personally, as the sole proprietor of the business. If you have 
borrowed money from a bank to start the business, then you are personally responsible for 
this debt. If the business loses money and cannot pay the bank, then the bank can demand 
Example 1.1 ⊲
Which of the following are financial assets, and which are real assets?
a. A patent.
b. A share of stock issued by Wells Fargo Bank.
c. A blast furnace in a steelmaking factory.
d. A mortgage loan taken out to help pay for a new home.
e. After a successful advertising campaign, potential customers trust FedEx to 
deliver packages promptly and reliably.
f. An IOU (“I owe you”) from your brother-in-law.
1.2 Self-Test
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 1 Goals and Governance of the Corporation 9
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 9 10/06/16 03:32 PM
When a corporation is first established, its shares may be privately owned by a 
small group of investors, perhaps the company’s managers and a few backers. In this 
case, the shares are not publicly traded and the company is closely held. Eventually, 
when the firm grows and new shares are issued to raise additional capital, its shares 
are traded in public markets such as the New York Stock Exchange. Such corporations 
are known as public companies. Most well-known corporations in the United States 
are public companies with widely dispersed shareholdings. In other countries, it is 
more common for large corporations to remain in private hands, and many public 
companies may be controlled by just a handful of investors.
A large public corporation may have hundreds of thousands of shareholders, who 
together own the business. An individual may have 100 shares, receive 100 votes, and 
be entitled to a tiny fraction of the firm’s income and value. On the other hand, a 
pension fund or insurance company may own millions of shares, receive millions of 
votes, and have a correspondingly large stake in the firm’s performance.
Public shareholders cannot possibly manage or control the corporation directly. 
Instead, they elect a board of directors, who in turn appoint the top managers and 
monitor their performance. This separation of ownership and control gives corporations 
permanence. Even if managers quit or are dismissed, the corporation survives. Today’s 
stockholders can sell all their shares to new investors without disrupting the operations 
of the business. Corporations can, in principle, live forever, and in practice they may 
survive many human lifetimes. One of the oldest corporations is the Hudson’s Bay 
Company, which was formed in 1670 to profit from the fur trade between northern 
Canada and England. The company still operates as one of Canada’s leading retail chains.
The separation of corporate ownership and control can also have a downside, for it 
can open the door for managers and directors to act in their own interests rather than in 
the stockholders’ interest. We return to this problem later in the chapter.
There are other disadvantages to being a corporation. One is the cost, in both time 
and money, of managing the corporation’s legal machinery. These costs are particularly burdensome for small businesses.
There is also an important tax drawback to corporations in the United States. 
Because the corporation is a separate legal entity, it is taxed separately. So corporations pay tax on their profits, and shareholders are taxed again when they receive 
dividends from the company or sell their shares at a profit. By contrast, income generated by businesses that are not incorporated is taxed just once as personal income.6
Other Forms of Business Organization
Corporations do not have to be prominent, multinational businesses such as those 
listed in Table 1.1. You can organize a local plumbing contractor or barber shop as a 
corporation if you want to take the trouble. But most corporations are larger 
BEYOND THE PAGE
mhhe.com/brealey9e
S-corporations
that you raise cash by selling other assets—your car or house, for example—in order to repay 
the loan. But if you incorporate the restaurant business, and then the corporation borrows 
from the bank, your other assets are shielded from the restaurant’s debts. Of course, 
incorporation also means that the bank will be more cautious in lending, because the bank 
will have no recourse to your other assets.5
Notice that if you incorporate your business, you exchange direct ownership of its real 
assets (the building, kitchen equipment, etc.) for indirect ownership via financial assets 
(the shares of the new corporation). ■
5
 The bank may ask you to put up personal assets as collateral for the loan to your restaurant corporation. But it 
has to ask and get your agreement. It doesn’t have to ask if your business is a sole proprietorship.
6
 The U.S. tax system is somewhat unusual in this respect. To avoid taxing the same income twice, many other 
countries give shareholders at least some credit for the taxes that the corporation has already paid.
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
10 Part One Introduction
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 10 10/06/16 03:32 PM
businesses or businesses that aspire to grow. Small “mom-and-pop” businesses are 
usually organized as sole proprietorships.
What about the middle ground? What about businesses that grow too large for sole 
proprietorships but don’t want to reorganize as corporations? For example, suppose 
you wish to pool money and expertise with some friends or business associates. 
You can form a partnership and enter into a partnership agreement that sets out 
how decisions are to be made and how profits are to be split up. Partners, like sole 
proprietors, face unlimited liability. If the business runs into difficulties, each partner 
can be held responsible for all the business’s debts.
Partnerships have a tax advantage. Partnerships, unlike corporations, do not have 
to pay income taxes. The partners pay personal income taxes on their shares of 
the profits.
Some businesses are hybrids that combine the tax advantage of a partnership with 
the limited liability advantage of a corporation. In a limited partnership, partners 
are classified as general or limited. General partners manage the business and have 
unlimited personal liability for its debts. Limited partners are liable only for the money 
they invest and do not participate in management.
Many states allow limited liability partnerships (LLPs) or limited liability companies (LLCs). These are partnerships in which all partners have limited liability. 
Another variation on the theme is the professional corporation (PC), which is 
commonly used by doctors, lawyers, and accountants. In this case, the business 
has limited liability, but the professionals can still be sued personally, for example, 
for malpractice.
Most large investment banks such as Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs started 
life as partnerships. But eventually these companies and their financing requirements 
grew too large for them to continue as partnerships, and they reorganized as corporations. The partnership form of organization does not work well when ownership is 
widespread and separation of ownership and management is essential.
1.3 Who Is the Financial Manager?
What do financial managers do for a living? That simple question can be answered in 
several ways. We can start with financial managers’ job titles. Most large corporations 
have a chief financial officer (CFO), who oversees the work of all financial staff. 
As you can see from Figure 1.1, the CFO is deeply involved in financial policy and 
financial planning and is in constant contact with the chief executive officer (CEO) 
and other top management. The CFO is the most important financial voice of the 
corporation and explains earnings results and forecasts to investors and the media.
chief financial officer (CFO)
Supervises all financial 
functions and sets overall 
financial strategy.
Treasurer
Responsible for:
Cash management
Raising of capital
Banking relationships
Controller
Responsible for:
Preparation of financial statements
Accounting
Taxes
Chief Financial Ocer (CFO)
Responsible for:
Financial policy
Corporate planning
FIGURE 1.1 Financial managers in large corporations
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 1 Goals and Governance of the Corporation 11
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 11 10/06/16 03:32 PM
Below the CFO are usually a treasurer and a controller. The treasurer looks after 
the firm’s cash, raises new capital, and maintains relationships with banks and other 
investors that hold the firm’s securities. The controller prepares the financial statements, manages the firm’s internal budgets and accounting, and looks after its tax 
affairs. Thus the treasurer’s main function is to obtain and manage the firm’s capital, 
whereas the controller ensures that the money is used efficiently.
BEYOND THE PAGE
mhhe.com/brealey9e
The role of 
the corporate 
treasurer
treasurer
Responsible for financing, 
cash management, and 
relationships with banks 
and other financial 
institutions.
controller
Responsible for budgeting, 
accounting, and taxes.
In large corporations, financial managers are responsible for organizing and supervising the capital budgeting process. However, major capital investment projects are 
so closely tied to plans for product development, production, and marketing that 
managers from these other areas are inevitably drawn into planning and analyzing the 
projects. If the firm has staff members specializing in corporate planning, they are 
naturally involved in capital budgeting too. For this reason, we will use the term financial manager to refer to anyone responsible for an investment or financing decision. 
Often we will use the term collectively for all the managers drawn into such decisions.
Now let’s go beyond job titles. What is the essential role of the financial manager? 
Figure 1.2 gives one answer. The figure traces how money flows from investors to the 
corporation and back again to investors. The flow starts when cash is raised from 
investors (arrow 1 in the figure). The cash could come from banks or from securities 
sold to investors in financial markets. The cash is then used to pay for the real assets 
(investment projects) needed for the corporation’s business (arrow 2). Later, as the 
business operates, the assets generate cash inflows (arrow 3). That cash is either 
reinvested (arrow 4a) or returned to the investors who furnished the money in the first 
place (arrow 4b). Of course, the choice between arrows 4a and 4b is constrained by the 
promises made when cash was raised at arrow 1. For example, if the firm borrows 
money from a bank at arrow 1, it must repay this money plus interest at arrow 4b.
You can see examples of arrows 4a and 4b in Table 1.1. Facebook financed its 
investments by reinvesting earnings (arrow 4a). Procter & Gamble decided to return 
cash to shareholders by buying back its stock (arrow 4b). It could have chosen instead 
to pay the money out as additional cash dividends, also on arrow 4b.
Notice how the financial manager stands between the firm and outside investors. 
On the one hand, the financial manager is involved in the firm’s operations, 
FIGURE 1.2 Flow of cash 
between investors and the firm’s 
operations. Key: (1) Cash raised 
by selling financial assets to 
investors; (2) cash invested in 
the firm’s operations; (3) cash 
generated by the firm’s 
operations; (4a) cash reinvested; 
(4b) cash returned to investors.
(2)
(3)
(1)
(4b)
(4a) Financial
Manager
Firm’s
Operations
Real Assets
Investors
Financial Assets
Fritz and Frieda went to business school together 10 years ago. They have 
just been hired by a midsize corporation that wants to bring in new financial 
managers. Fritz studied finance, with an emphasis on financial markets and 
institutions. Frieda majored in accounting and became a CPA 5 years ago. 
Who is more suited to be treasurer and who controller? Briefly explain.
1.3 Self-Test
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
12 Part One Introduction
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 12 10/06/16 03:32 PM
particularly by helping to make good investment decisions. On the other hand, he or 
she deals with financial institutions and other investors and with financial markets 
such as the New York Stock Exchange. We say more about these financial institutions 
and markets in the next chapter.
1.4 Goals of the Corporation
Shareholders Want Managers to Maximize Market Value
For small corporations, shareholders and management may be one and the same. 
But for large corporations, separation of ownership and management is a practical 
necessity. For example, Walmart has nearly 300,000 shareholders. There is no way 
that these shareholders can be actively involved in management; it would be like trying 
to run New York City by town meetings. Authority has to be delegated.
How can shareholders effectively delegate decision making when they all have 
different tastes, wealth, time horizons, personal opportunities, and tolerance for 
risk? Delegation can work only if the shareholders have a common goal. Fortunately 
there is a natural financial objective on which almost all shareholders can agree: 
Maximize the current market value of shareholders’ investment in the firm.
This simple, unqualified goal makes sense when the shareholders have access to 
well-functioning financial markets and institutions. Access gives them the flexibility 
to manage their own savings and consumption plans, leaving the corporation’s financial managers with only one task, to increase market value. For example, a corporation’s roster of shareholders will usually include both risk-averse and risk-tolerant 
investors. You might expect the risk-averse to say, “Sure, maximize value, but don’t 
touch too many high-risk projects.” Instead, they say, “Risky projects are okay, provided that expected profits are more than enough to offset the risks. If this firm ends 
up too risky for my taste, I’ll adjust my investment portfolio to make it safer.” 
For example, the risk-averse shareholder can shift more of his or her portfolio to safe 
assets, such as U.S. government bonds. Shareholders can also just say good-bye, 
selling off shares of the risky firm and buying shares in a safer one. If the risky investments increase market value, the departing shareholders are better off than they would 
be if the risky investments were turned down.
BEYOND THE PAGE
mhhe.com/brealey9e
Foundations of the 
NPV rule
Value Maximization
Fast-Track Wireless shares trade for $20. It has just announced a “bet the company” 
investment in a high-risk, but potentially revolutionary, WhyFi technology. Investors note the 
risk of failure but are even more impressed with the technology’s upside. They conclude 
that the possibility of very high future profits justifies a higher share price. The price goes 
up to $23.
Caspar Milquetoast, a thoughtful but timid shareholder, notes the downside risks and 
decides that it’s time for a change. He sells out to more risk-tolerant investors. But he sells at 
$23 per share, not $20. Thus he captures the value added by the WhyFi project without 
having to bear the project’s risks. Those risks are transferred to other investors, who are 
more risk-tolerant or more optimistic.
In a well-functioning stock market, there is always a pool of investors ready to bear 
downside risks if the upside potential is sufficiently attractive. We know that the upside 
potential was sufficient in this case, because Fast-Track stock attracted investors willing to 
pay $23 per share. ■
Example 1.2 ⊲
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 1 Goals and Governance of the Corporation 13
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 13 10/06/16 03:32 PM
The same principles apply to the timing of a corporation’s cash flows, as the 
following Self-Test illustrates.
Sometimes you hear managers speak as if the corporation has other goals. For 
example, they may say that their job is to “maximize profits.” That sounds reasonable. 
After all, don’t shareholders want their company to be profitable? But taken literally, 
profit maximization is not a well-defined corporate objective. Here are two reasons:
1. Maximize profits? Which year’s profits? A corporation may be able to increase 
current profits by cutting back on outlays for maintenance or staff training, but that 
will not add value unless the outlays were wasteful in the first place. Shareholders 
will not welcome higher short-term profits if long-term profits are damaged.
2. A company may be able to increase future profits by cutting this year’s dividend 
and investing the freed-up cash in the firm. That is not in the shareholders’ best 
interest if the company earns only a very low rate of return on the extra investment.
Maximizing—or at least maintaining—value is necessary for the long-run survival 
of the corporation. Suppose, for example, that its managers forget about value and decide 
that the only goal is to increase the market share of its products. So the managers cut 
prices aggressively to attract new customers, even when this leads to continuing losses. 
As losses mount, the corporation finds it more and more difficult to borrow money and 
sooner or later cannot pay existing debts. Nor can it raise new equity financing if shareholders see that new equity investment will follow previous investments down the drain.
This firm’s managers would probably pay the price for this business malpractice. 
For example, outside investors would see an opportunity for easy money. They could 
buy the firm from its current shareholders, toss out the managers, and reemphasize 
value rather than market share. The investors would profit from the increase in value 
under new management.
Managers who pursue goals that destroy value often end in early retirement—
another reason that the natural financial goal of the corporation is to maximize 
market value.
The Investment Trade-Off Okay, let’s take the objective as maximizing market 
value, or at least adding market value. But why do some investments increase market 
value, while others reduce it? The answer is given by Figure 1.3, which sets out the 
fundamental trade-off for corporate investment decisions. The corporation has a 
proposed investment project (the purchase of a real asset). Suppose it has sufficient 
cash on hand to finance the project. The financial manager is trying to decide whether 
to go ahead. If he or she decides not to invest, the corporation can pay out the cash 
to shareholders, say as an extra dividend. (The investment and dividend arrows in 
Figure 1.3 are arrows 2 and 4b in Figure 1.2.)
Assume that the financial manager is acting in the interests of the corporation’s 
owners, its stockholders. What do these stockholders want the financial manager to do? 
BEYOND THE PAGE
mhhe.com/brealey9e
B-corporations
Rhonda and Reggie Hotspur are working hard to save for their children’s college 
education. They don’t need more cash for current consumption but will face big 
tuition bills in 2025. Should they therefore avoid investing in stocks that pay 
generous current cash dividends? (Hint: Are they required to spend the 
dividends on current consumption?) Explain briefly.
1.4 Self-Test
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
14 Part One Introduction
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 14 10/06/16 03:32 PM
The answer depends on the rate of return on the investment project and on the rate of 
return that stockholders can earn by investing in financial markets. If the return offered 
by the investment project is higher than the rate of return that shareholders can get by 
investing on their own, then the shareholders would vote for the investment project. 
If the investment project offers a lower return than shareholders can achieve on their 
own, the shareholders would vote to cancel the project and take the cash instead.
Figure 1.3 could apply to Virgin Atlantic’s decisions to invest in new aircraft. 
Suppose the company has cash set aside to buy five more Airbus A350-1000s. It could 
go ahead with the purchase, or it could choose to cancel the investment and instead pay 
out the cash to its stockholders. If it pays out the cash, the stockholders could then 
invest for themselves.
Suppose that Virgin’s investment in new planes is just about as risky as the stock 
market and that investment in the stock market offers a 10% expected rate of return. 
If the new planes offer a superior rate of return, say 20%, then Virgin’s stockholders 
would be happy to let the company keep the cash and invest it in the new planes. 
If the planes offer only a 5% return, then the stockholders are better off with the cash 
and without the new project; in that case, the financial manager should turn down 
the project.
As long as a corporation’s proposed investments offer higher rates of return than its 
shareholders can earn for themselves in the stock market (or in other financial 
markets), its shareholders will applaud the investments and the market value of the 
firm will increase. But if the company earns an inferior return, shareholders boo, 
market value falls, and stockholders clamor to get their money back so that they can 
invest on their own.
In our example, the minimum acceptable rate of return on Virgin’s new aircraft 
is 10%. This minimum rate of return is called the hurdle rate or opportunity cost of 
capital. It is called an opportunity cost of capital because it depends on the alternative 
investment opportunities available to shareholders in financial markets. Whenever a 
corporation invests cash in a new project, its shareholders lose the opportunity to 
invest the cash on their own. Corporations increase value by accepting investment 
projects that earn more than the opportunity cost of capital.
Figure 1.3, which compares rates of return on investment projects with the opportunity cost of capital, illustrates a general principle: A corporation should direct cash to 
investments that add market value, compared with the investments that shareholders 
could make on their own.7
opportunity cost of capital
Expected rate of return 
given up by investing in a 
project rather than in the 
capital market.
FIGURE 1.3 The firm can 
either keep and reinvest cash or 
return it to investors. (Arrows 
represent possible cash flows or 
transfers.) If cash is reinvested, 
the opportunity cost is the 
expected rate of return that 
shareholders could have 
obtained by investing in 
financial assets.
Investment
opportunity
(real asset)
Invest Alternative:
pay out cash
to shareholders
Shareholders
invest for
themselves
Firm Shareholders
Investment
opportunities
(financial assets)
Cash
7
 We have mentioned 5% or 20% as possible future rates of return on Virgin Atlantic’s new planes. We will see 
in Chapter 8 that future rates of return are sometimes difficult to calculate and interpret. The general 
principle always holds, however. In Chapters 8 and 9 we show you how to apply the principle by calculating 
the net present value (NPV) of investment projects.
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 1 Goals and Governance of the Corporation 15
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 15 10/06/16 03:32 PM
Notice that the opportunity cost of capital depends on the risk of the proposed 
investment project. Why? It’s not just because shareholders are risk-averse. It’s also 
because shareholders have to trade off risk against return when they invest on their 
own. The safest investments, such as U.S. government debt, offer low rates of return. 
Investments with higher expected rates of return—the stock market, for example—are 
riskier and sometimes deliver painful losses. (The U.S. stock market fell 38% in 2008, 
for example.) Other investments are riskier still. For example, high-tech growth stocks 
offer the prospect of higher rates of return than typical stocks but are also more volatile 
than typical stocks.
Managers look to the financial markets to measure the opportunity cost of capital 
for the firm’s investment projects. They can observe the opportunity cost of capital for 
safe investments by looking up current interest rates on safe debt securities. For risky 
investments, the opportunity cost of capital has to be estimated. We start to tackle this 
task in Chapter 11.
1.5 Agency Problems, Executive Compensation, 
and Corporate Governance
Sole proprietors face no conflicts in financial management. They are both owners and 
managers, reaping the rewards of good decisions and hard work and suffering when 
they make bad decisions or slack off. Their personal wealth is tied to the value of their 
businesses.
In most large corporations, the owners are mostly outside investors, and so the 
managers may be tempted to act in their own interests rather than maximize shareholder value. For example, they may shy away from valuable but risky investment 
projects because they worry more about job security than maximizing value. They 
may build empires by overaggressive investment or overconfident acquisitions of 
other companies.
The temptation for such value-destroying actions arises because the managers are 
not the shareholders, but agents of the shareholders. Therefore, the actions are called 
agency problems. Losses in value from agency problems—or from costs incurred to 
mitigate the problems—are called agency costs.
Agency problems sometimes lead to outrageous behavior. When Dennis 
Kozlowski, the former CEO of Tyco, threw a $2 million birthday bash for his wife, 
he charged half the cost to the company. Conrad Black, the former boss of Hollinger 
International, used the company jet for a trip with his wife to Bora Bora. These, of 
course, are extreme examples. The agency problems encountered in the ordinary 
course of business are often subtle and mundane. But agency problems do arise 
whenever managers think just a little less hard about spending money that is not 
their own.
agency problem
Managers are agents for 
stockholders and are 
tempted to act in their own 
interests rather than 
maximizing value.
agency cost
Value lost from agency 
problems or from the cost 
of mitigating agency 
problems.
Investing $100,000 in additional raw materials, mostly palladium, should allow 
Cryogenic Concepts to increase production and earn an additional $112,000 
next year. This payoff could cover the investment, plus a 12% return. Palladium is 
traded in commodity markets. The CFO has studied the history of returns from 
investments in palladium and believes that investors in the precious metal 
can reasonably expect a 15% return. What is the opportunity cost of capital? 
Is Cryogenic’s proposed investment in palladium a good idea? Why or why not?
1.5 Self-Test
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
16 Part One Introduction
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 16 10/06/16 03:32 PM
Think of the corporation’s value as a pie that is divided among several classes of 
claimants. These include managers and workers as well as shareholders and lenders. 
The government is a claimant, too, because it taxes sales and profits. The claimants are 
called stakeholders because each has a stake in the firm. Agency problems arise 
whenever the stakeholders’ interests do not coincide.
stakeholder
Anyone with a financial 
interest in the corporation.
8
 Most restricted stock does not “vest” immediately. Suppose the vesting period is 3 years. If the manager quits 
or is fired in year 2, the restricted stock stays behind. Vesting gives the managers an incentive to stay at the 
corporation, in this example, for at least 3 years.
Agency problems are controlled in practice in three ways. First, corporations set up 
internal controls and decision-making procedures to prevent wasteful spending and 
discourage careless investment. We discuss the controls and procedures in several later 
chapters. For example, Chapters 8, 9, and 10 cover procedures for disciplined, valuemaximizing capital investment decisions. Second, corporations try to design compensation schemes that align managers’ and shareholders’ interests. Third, the corporations 
are constrained by corporate governance. We comment on compensation and governance here.
Executive Compensation
The compensation packages of top executives are almost always tied to the financial 
performance of their companies. The package typically includes a fixed base salary 
plus an annual award tied to earnings or other measures of financial performance. 
The more senior the manager, the smaller the base salary as a fraction of total compensation. Also, compensation is not all in cash, but partly in shares. The shares are 
usually restricted stock, which the manager is required to hold onto while employed 
by the corporation.8
 Many corporations also include stock options in compensation 
packages. Stock options, which we cover in Chapter 23, give especially powerful 
incentives to maximize stock price per share.
The upside compensation potential for a few top managers is enormous. For example, Larry Ellison, CEO of the business software giant Oracle, received total compensation of $64 million for 2015. Only $1 of that amount was base salary. The rest came 
from grants of stock and options. The options will be worthless if Oracle’s stock price 
falls from its 2015 level but will pay off handsomely if the price rises. In addition, as a 
founder of Oracle, Ellison owns shares worth $49 billion. No one can say for certain 
how hard Ellison would have worked with a different compensation package, but one 
thing is clear: He has a huge personal stake in Oracle’s market value.
Well-designed compensation schemes alleviate agency problems by encouraging 
managers to maximize shareholder wealth. But some schemes are not well designed; 
they reward managers even when value is destroyed. For example, during Robert 
Nardelli’s 6-year tenure as CEO, Home Depot’s stock price fell by 20% while shares of 
its rival Lowe’s nearly doubled. When Nardelli was ousted in January 2007, he received 
a farewell package worth $210 million. Needless to say, many shareholders were livid.
In 2010, the Dodd-Frank financial reform law gave U.S. shareholders the right to 
express their opinion on executive compensation through nonbinding “say on pay” 
votes at 1- or 3-year intervals. (Shareholders of U.K. companies have a similar right.) 
What are agency problems and agency costs? Give two or three examples of 
decisions by managers that can lead to agency costs.
1.6 Self-Test
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 1 Goals and Governance of the Corporation 17
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 17 10/06/16 03:32 PM
9
 A large block of shares may give effective control even when there is no majority owner. For example, Larry 
Ellison’s billion-plus shares give him a 25% stake in Oracle. Barring some extreme catastrophe, this holding 
means that he can run the company as long as he wants to.
Most votes have endorsed compensation policy, but occasionally shareholders refuse. 
For example, in 2011 Hewlett-Packard’s shareholders voted against a $40 million compensation package for its new CEO. When there is a “no” vote, the company generally 
changes the pay package to make it less generous; other companies look anxiously over 
their shoulders to check that their compensation package is not next in the spotlight.
Corporate Governance
Financial markets and institutions are supposed to direct financing to firms that can 
invest to add value. But financing moves from investors to firms only if investors are 
protected and if agency problems within firms are absent or at least tolerable. Thus 
there is a need for a system of corporate governance so that money can flow to the 
right firms at the right times. “Corporate governance” refers to the laws, regulations, 
institutions, and corporate practices that protect shareholders and other investors. 
When scandals happen, we say that corporate governance has broken down. When 
corporations compete to deliver value to shareholders, we are comforted that corporate 
governance is working properly.
Good corporate governance relies in part on well-designed management compensation packages. Other elements of good corporate governance include the following.
Legal Requirements Good governance requires laws and regulations that protect 
investors from self-dealing by insiders. CEOs and financial managers have a fiduciary 
duty to stockholders. That is, they are required to act fairly and responsibly in the 
stockholders’ interests. If they don’t, they may end up in jail like Tyco’s Dennis 
Kozlowski and Hollinger’s Conrad Black.
Boards of Directors The board of directors appoints top managers, including the 
CEO and CFO, and must approve important financial decisions. For example, only 
the board has legal authority to approve a dividend or a public issue of securities. The 
board approves compensation schemes and awards to top management. Boards usually 
delegate decision making for small and medium-size investments, but the authority to 
approve large investments is almost never delegated.
The board of directors is elected by shareholders and is supposed to represent their 
interests. Boards have been portrayed as passive supporters of top management, but 
the balance has tipped toward independence. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX) 
requires that more directors be independent—that is, not affiliated with management. 
The majority of directors are now independent. Boards must also meet in executive 
sessions with the CEO not present. SOX also requires CEOs and CFOs to sign off 
personally on the corporation’s accounting procedures and results.
Activist Shareholders Institutional shareholders, including pension funds, have 
become more active in monitoring management and pushing for changes. CEOs have 
been forced out as a result, including the CEOs of JCPenney, Procter & Gamble, Barnes 
& Noble, Citigroup, Yahoo!, and Carnival. Boards outside the United States, which 
have traditionally been more management-friendly, have also become more willing to 
replace underperformers. The list of foreign companies with CEO departures includes 
Barclays, Carrefour, Siemens, Barrick, and Rio Tinto.
Although U.S. corporations typically have thousands of individual shareholders, 
they often also have blockholders, that is, investors who own 5%, 10%, or more of 
outstanding shares. The blockholders may include wealthy individuals or families—
for example, descendants of a founder. They may also include other corporations, 
pension funds, or foundations.9
 When a 5% blockholder calls, the CFO answers.
corporate governance
The laws, regulations, 
institutions, and corporate 
practices that protect 
shareholders and other 
investors.
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
18 Part One Introduction
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 18 10/06/16 03:32 PM
10 Adam Smith, An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations (New York: Random House, 
1937; first published 1776), p. 14.
11 Shareholders value integrity. Firms that are regarded as trustworthy by their employees and that are voted as 
good places to work tend to be more highly valued by investors and to perform better. See A. Edmans, “Does 
the Stock Market Fully Value Intangibles? Employee Satisfaction and Equity Prices,” Journal of Financial 
Economics 101, no. 3 (September 2011), pp. 621–640; and L. Guiso, P. Sapienza, and L. Zingales, “The Value 
of Corporate Culture,” Journal of Financial Economics 117, no. 1 (July 2015), pp. 60–76.
Disgruntled shareholders can also take the “Wall Street Walk” by selling out and 
moving on to other investments. The Wall Street Walk can send a powerful message. 
If enough shareholders bail out, the stock price tumbles, which damages top managers’ compensation and reputation.
Takeovers The Wall Street Walk also opens the door for takeovers. The further the 
stock price falls, the easier it is for another company to buy up the majority of shares 
and take over. The old management team is then likely to find itself out on the street. 
We discuss takeovers in Chapter 21.
Information for Investors Corporate governance can’t work unless outside investors 
get detailed, up-to-date information. If a firm is transparent—if investors can see its true 
profitability and prospects—then problems will show up right away in a falling stock 
price. That in turn generates extra scrutiny from security analysts, bond rating agencies, 
and banks and other lenders, who keep an eagle eye on the progress of their borrowers.
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) sets accounting and reporting standards for public companies. We cover accounting and finance in Chapter 3.
Chapter 1 is not the right place for a worldwide tour of corporate governance. But be 
aware that governance laws, regulations, and practice vary. The differences are more 
dramatic in continental Europe and Japan than in Canada, the United Kingdom, Australia, and other English-speaking countries. In Germany, for example, banks often control 
large blocks of stock and can push hard for changes in the management or strategy of 
poorly performing companies. (Banks in the United States are prohibited from large or 
permanent holdings of the stock of nonfinancial corporations.) Large German firms also 
have two boards of directors: the supervisory board (Aufsichtsrat) and the management 
board (Vorstand). Half of the supervisory board’s members are elected by employees. 
Some French firms also have two boards, one including employee representatives.
1.6 The Ethics of Maximizing Value
Shareholders want managers to maximize the market value of their shares. But perhaps this begs the question: Is it desirable for managers to act in the narrow, selfish 
interest of their shareholders? Does a focus on shareholder value mean that the managers must act as greedy mercenaries riding roughshod over widows and orphans?
Most of this book is devoted to financial policies that increase value. None of these 
policies requires galloping over widows and orphans. In most instances, there is little 
conflict between doing well (maximizing value) and doing good. The first step in doing 
well is doing good by your customers. Here is how Adam Smith put the case in 1776:
It is not from the benevolence of the butcher, the brewer, or the baker, that we expect our 
dinner, but from their regard to their own interest. We address ourselves, not to their humanity 
but to their self-love, and never talk to them of our own necessities but of their advantages.10
Profitable firms are those with satisfied customers and loyal employees; firms with 
dissatisfied customers and a disgruntled workforce will probably end up with declining profits and a low stock price.11
Of course, ethical issues do arise in business as in other walks of life. When the 
stakes are high, it is often tempting for managers to cut corners. Laws and regulations 
seek to prevent managers from undertaking dishonest actions. But written rules and 
laws can help only so much. In business, as in other day-to-day affairs, there are also 
BEYOND THE PAGE
mhhe.com/brealey9e
Things are not 
always fair in love 
or business
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 1 Goals and Governance of the Corporation 19
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 19 10/06/16 03:32 PM
unwritten rules of behavior. They are reinforced because good managers know that 
their firm’s reputation is one of its most important assets, and therefore playing fair 
and keeping one’s word are simply good business practices. Thus financial deals are 
regularly sealed by a handshake, and each side knows that the other will not renege 
later if things turn sour.
Reputation is particularly important in finance. If you buy a well-known brand in a 
supermarket, you can be fairly sure of what you are getting. But in financial transactions, the other party often has more information than you, and it is less easy to be sure 
of the quality of what you are buying. Therefore, honest financial firms seek to build 
long-term relationships with their customers and to establish a name for fair dealing 
and financial integrity. Major banks and securities firms protect their reputations.
When something happens to undermine reputations, the costs can be enormous. 
Volkswagen (VW) is a recent case in point. VW had installed secret software that cut 
back pollution from its diesel cars, but only when the cars were tested. Actual pollution in regular driving was much higher—and far in excess of legal maximums. 
Discovery of the software scandal in 2015 caused a tidal wave of opprobrium. VW’s 
stock price dropped by 35%. Its CEO was fired. VW diesel vehicles piled up unsold on 
car dealers’ lots. Potential fines imposed by the U.S. and European governments could 
be enormous. VW set aside $7.3 billion to cover costs and losses, but some analysts 
viewed this amount as much too low.
Charlatans and swindlers sometimes prey on individual investors, especially in 
booming markets. (It’s only “when the tide goes out that you learn who’s been 
swimming naked.”12) The tide went out in 2008 and a number of frauds were exposed. 
One notorious example was the Ponzi scheme run by the disgraced financier Bernard 
Madoff (pronounced “Made-off ”).13 Individuals and institutions invested around 
$20 billion with Madoff and were told that their investments had grown to $65 billion. 
That figure turned out to be completely fictitious. (It’s not clear what Madoff did with 
all this money, but much of it was apparently paid out to early investors in the scheme to 
create an impression of superior investment performance.) With hindsight, the investors 
should not have trusted Madoff or the financial advisers who steered money to him.
Madoff’s Ponzi scheme was (we hope) a once-in-a-lifetime event. (Ponzi schemes 
pop up frequently, but few have approached the scope and duration of Madoff’s.) 
It was astonishingly unethical and illegal and was bound to end in tears. Needless to 
say, it was not designed to add value for investors.
BEYOND THE PAGE
mhhe.com/brealey9e
Business culture 
and unethical 
behavior
BEYOND THE PAGE
mhhe.com/brealey9e
The Great Albanian 
Ponzi Scheme
12 The quotation is from Warren Buffett’s annual letter to the shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway, March 2008.
13 Ponzi schemes are named after Charles Ponzi, who founded an investment company in 1920 that promised 
investors unbelievably high returns. He was soon deluged with funds from investors in New England, taking in 
$1 million during one 3-hour period. Ponzi invested only about $30 of the money that he raised. But he used part of 
the cash provided by later investors to pay generous dividends to the original investors, thus promoting the illusion 
of high profits and quick payoffs. Within months the scheme collapsed and Ponzi started a 5-year prison sentence.
Without knowing anything about the personal ethics of the owners, which 
company would you trust more to keep its word in a business deal?
a. Harry’s Hardware has been in business for 50 years. Harry’s grandchildren, 
now almost adults, plan to take over and operate the business. Successful 
hardware stores depend on long-term loyal customers.
b. Victor’s Videos just opened for business. It rents a storefront in a strip mall 
and has financed its inventory with a bank loan. Victor has little of his own 
money invested in the business. Video shops usually command little 
customer loyalty.
1.7 Self-Test
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
But sometimes raids can enhance shareholder value. For 
example, in 2012 and 2013, Relational Investors teamed up 
with the California State Teachers’ Retirement System (CSTRS, 
a pension fund) to try to force Timken Co. to split into two 
separate companies, one for its steel business and one for its 
industrial bearings business. Relational and CSTRS believed 
that Timken’s combination of unrelated businesses was unfocused and inefficient. Timken management responded that 
breakup would “deprive our shareholders of long-run value—
all in an attempt to create illusory short-term gains through 
financial engineering.” But Timken’s stock price rose at the 
prospect of a breakup, and a nonbinding shareholder vote on 
Relational’s proposal attracted a 53% majority. Finally in 2014 
Timken spun off its steel business in a new corporation, 
Timken Steel.
How do you draw the ethical line in such examples? Was 
Relational Investors a “raider” (sounds bad) or an “activist 
investor” (sounds good)? Breaking up a portfolio of businesses can create difficult adjustments and job losses. Some 
stakeholders lose. But shareholders and the overall economy 
can gain if businesses are managed more efficiently.
Tax Avoidance
In 2012 it was revealed that during the 14 years that Starbucks 
had operated in the United Kingdom, it paid hardly any taxes. 
Public outrage led to a boycott of Starbucks shops, and the 
company responded by promising that it would voluntarily 
pay to the taxman about $16 million more than it was required 
to pay by law. Several months later, a U.S. Senate committee 
investigating tax avoidance by U.S. technology firms reported 
that Apple had used a “highly questionable” web of offshore 
entities to avoid billions of dollars of U.S. taxes.
Multinational companies, such as Starbucks and Apple, 
could reduce their tax bills using legal techniques with exotic 
names such as the “Dutch Sandwich,” “Double Irish,” and 
“Check-the-Box.” But the public outcry over the revelations 
suggested that many believed that use of these techniques, 
though legal, was unethical. If they were unethical, that leaves 
an awkward question: How do companies decide which tax 
schemes are ethical and which are not? Can a company act in 
shareholders’ interest if it voluntarily pays more taxes than it 
is legally obligated to pay?
*We need not go into the mechanics of short sales here, but note that the seller 
is obligated to buy back the security, even if its price skyrockets far above what 
he or she sold it for. As the saying goes, “He who sells what isn’t his’n, buys it 
back or goes to prison.”
†The story of Paulson’s trade is told in G. Zuckerman, The Greatest Trade Ever 
(Broadway Business, 2009). The trade was controversial for reasons beyond 
short-selling. Scan the nearby Beyond the Page icon “Goldman Sachs causes a 
ruckus” to learn more.
Short-Selling
Investors who take short positions are betting that securities 
will fall in price. Usually they do this by borrowing the security, 
selling it for cash, and then waiting in the hope that they will 
be able to buy it back cheaply.* In 2007, hedge fund manager 
John Paulson took a huge short position in mortgage-backed 
securities. The bet paid off, and that year Paulson’s trade 
made a profit of $1 billion for his fund.†
Was Paulson’s trade unethical? Some believe not only that 
he was profiting from the misery that resulted from the crash 
in mortgage-backed securities, but that his short trades 
accentuated the collapse. It is certainly true that short-sellers 
have never been popular. For example, following the crash of 
1929, one commentator compared short-selling to the ghoulishness of “creatures who, at all great earthquakes and fires, 
spring up to rob broken homes and injured and dead 
humans.”
Short-selling in the stock market is the Wall Street Walk on 
steroids. Not only do short-sellers sell all the shares they may 
have previously owned, but they borrow more shares and sell 
them too, hoping to buy them back for less when the stock 
price falls. Poorly performing companies are natural targets 
for short-sellers, and the companies’ incumbent managers 
naturally complain, often bitterly. Governments sometimes 
listen to such complaints. For example, in 2008 the U.S. 
government temporarily banned short sales of financial 
stocks in an attempt to halt their decline.
But defendants of short-selling argue that selling securities that one believes are overpriced is no less legitimate 
than buying those that appear underpriced. The object of a 
well-functioning market is to set the correct stock prices, not 
always higher prices. Why impede short-selling if it conveys 
truly bad news, puts pressure on poor performers, and helps 
corporate governance work?
Corporate Raiders
In the movie Pretty Woman, Richard Gere plays the role of an 
asset stripper, Edward Lewis. He buys companies, takes them 
apart, and sells the bits for more than he paid for the total 
package. In the movie Wall Street, Gordon Gekko buys a 
failing airline, Blue Star, in order to break it up and sell the 
bits. Real corporate raiders may not be as ruthless as Edward 
Lewis or Gordon Gekko, but they do target companies whose 
assets can be profitably split up and redeployed.
This has led some to complain that raiders seek to carve 
up established companies, often leaving them with heavy 
debt burdens, basically in order to get rich quick. One 
German politician has likened them to “swarms of locusts that 
fall on companies, devour all they can, and then move on.”
Finance in Practice Ethical Disputes in Finance
20
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 20 10/06/16 03:32 PM
It is not always easy to know what is ethical behavior, and there can be many gray 
areas. The nearby box presents three ethical controversies in finance. Think about 
where you stand on these issues and where you would draw the ethical line.
BEYOND THE PAGE
mhhe.com/brealey9e
Goldman Sachs 
causes a ruckus
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 1 Goals and Governance of the Corporation 21
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 21 10/06/16 03:32 PM
14 The careers are fictitious but based on the actual experiences of several of the authors’ students.
1.7 Careers in Finance
Well over 1 million people work in the financial services industry in the United States, 
and many others work as financial managers in corporations. We can’t tell you what 
each one does all day, but we can give you some idea of the variety of careers in finance. 
The nearby box summarizes the experience of a small sample of recent graduates.14
We explained earlier that corporations face two principal financial decisions: the 
investment decision and the financing decision. Therefore, as a newly recruited financial analyst, you may help to analyze a major new investment project. Or you may 
instead help to raise the money to pay for it, perhaps by negotiating a bank loan or by 
arranging to lease the plant and equipment. Other financial analysts work on shortterm finance, managing collection and investment of the company’s cash or checking 
whether customers are likely to pay their bills. Financial analysts are also involved in 
monitoring and controlling risk. For example, they may help to arrange insurance for 
the firm’s plant and equipment, or they may assist with the purchase and sale of 
options, futures, and other exotic tools for managing risk.
Instead of working in the finance department of a corporation, you may join a 
financial institution. The largest employers are banks. Banks collect deposits and 
relend the cash to corporations and individuals. If you join a bank, you may start in a 
branch office, where individuals and small businesses come to deposit cash or to seek 
a loan. You could also work in the head office, helping to analyze a $500 million loan 
to a large corporation.
Banks do many things in addition to lending money, and they probably provide a 
greater variety of jobs than other financial institutions. For example, if you work in the 
cash management department of a large bank, you may help companies to transfer 
huge sums of money electronically as wages, taxes, and payments to suppliers. Banks 
also buy and sell foreign exchange, so you could find yourself working in front of one 
of those computer screens in a foreign exchange trading room. Another glamorous 
bank job is in the derivatives group, which helps companies to manage their risk by 
buying and selling options, futures, and so on. This is where the mathematicians and 
the computer buffs thrive.
Investment banks, such as Goldman Sachs or Morgan Stanley, help companies sell 
their securities to investors. They also have large corporate finance departments that 
assist firms in mergers and acquisitions. When firms issue securities or try to take over 
another firm, a lot of money is at stake and the firms may need to move fast. Thus, 
working for an investment bank can be a high-pressure activity with long hours. It can 
also pay very well.
The insurance industry is another large employer. Much of the insurance industry is 
involved in designing and selling insurance policies on people’s lives and property, but 
businesses are also major customers. So, if you work for an insurance company or a 
large insurance broker, you could find yourself arranging insurance on a Boeing 787 in 
the United States or an oil rig in Indonesia.
Life insurance companies are major lenders to corporations and to investors in commercial real estate. (Life insurance companies deploy the insurance premiums received 
from policyholders into medium- or long-term loans; banks specialize in shorter-term 
financing.) So you could end up negotiating a $50 million loan for construction of a 
new shopping center or investigating the creditworthiness of a family-owned manufacturing company that has applied for a loan to expand production.
Then there is the business of “managing money,” that is, deciding which companies’ shares to invest in or how to balance investment in shares with safer securities, 
such as the bonds (debt securities) issued by the U.S. Treasury. Take mutual funds, for 
example. A mutual fund collects money from individuals and invests in a portfolio of 
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Albert Rodriguez, European Markets Group, 
Major New York Bank
I joined the bank after majoring in finance. I spent the first 
6 months in the bank’s training program, rotating among 
departments. I was assigned to the European markets 
team just before the 2010 Greek crisis, when worries about 
a possible default caused interest rates on Greek government debt to jump to more than 4% above the rate on 
comparable German government debt. Those rates soon 
went much higher! There was a lot of activity, with everyone trying to figure out whether Greece might be forced 
to abandon the euro and how this would affect our business. My job is largely concerned with analyzing economies and assessing the prospects for bank business. 
There are plenty of opportunities to work abroad, and 
I hope to spend some time in Madrid or one of our other 
European offices.
Sherry Solera, Branch Manager, Regional Bank
I took basic finance courses in college, but nothing specific for banking. I started here as a teller. I was able to 
learn about banking through the bank’s training program 
and also by evening courses at a local college. Last year I 
was promoted to branch manager. I oversee the branch’s 
operations and help customers with a wide variety of problems. I’m also spending more time on credit analysis of 
business loan applications. I want to expand the branch’s 
business customers, but not by making loans to shaky 
companies.
Susan Webb, Research Analyst, Mutual Fund Group
After majoring in biochemistry, I joined the research department of a large mutual fund group. Because of my background, I was assigned to work with the senior pharmaceuticals 
analyst. I start the day by reading The Wall Street Journal and 
reviewing the analyses that come in each day from stockbroking firms. Sometimes we need to revise our earnings 
forecasts and meet with the portfolio managers to discuss 
possible trades. The remainder of my day is spent mainly in 
analyzing companies and developing forecasts of revenues 
and earnings. I meet frequently with pharmaceutical analysts 
in stockbroking firms, and we regularly visit company management. In the evenings I study for the Chartered Financial 
Analyst (CFA) exam. I did not study finance at college, so this 
is quite challenging. I hope eventually to move from a 
research role to become a portfolio manager.
Richard Gradley, Project Finance, Large Energy Company
After leaving college, I joined the finance department of a 
large energy company. I spent my first year helping to analyze capital investment proposals. I then moved to the project 
finance group, which is responsible for analyzing independent power projects around the world. Recently, I have been 
involved in a proposal to set up a company that would build 
and operate a large new electricity plant in southeast Asia. 
We built a spreadsheet model of the project to make sure that 
it was viable. We had to check that the contracts with the 
builders, operators, suppliers, and so on, were all in place 
before we could arrange bank financing for the project.
Finance in Practice Working in Finance
22
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 22 10/06/16 03:32 PM
stocks or bonds. A financial analyst in a mutual fund analyzes the prospects for the 
securities and works with the investment manager to decide which should be bought 
and sold. Many other financial institutions also contain investment management 
departments. For example, you might work as a financial analyst in the investment 
department of an insurance company. (Insurance companies also invest in traded 
securities.) Or you could be a financial analyst in the trust department of a bank that 
manages money for retirement funds, universities, and charities.
Stockbroking firms help investment management companies and private individuals to invest in securities. They employ sales staff and dealers who make the trades. 
They also employ financial analysts to analyze the securities and help customers to 
decide which to buy or sell.
Investment banks and stockbroking firms are largely headquartered in New York, as 
are many of the large commercial banks. Insurance companies and investment management companies tend to be more scattered. For example, some of the largest insurance 
companies are headquartered in Hartford, Connecticut, and many investment management companies are located in Boston. Of course, some U.S. financial institutions have 
large businesses outside the United States. Finance is a global business. So you may 
spend some time working in a branch overseas or making the occasional trip to one of 
the other major financial centers, such as London, Tokyo, Hong Kong, or Singapore.
1.8 Preview of Coming Attractions
This book covers investment decisions, then financing decisions, and finally a variety 
of planning issues that require an understanding of both investment and financing. But 
first there are three further introductory chapters that should be helpful to readers who 
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 1 Goals and Governance of the Corporation 23
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 23 10/06/16 03:32 PM
are making a first acquaintance with financial management. Chapter 2 is an overview 
of financial markets and institutions. Chapter 3 reviews the basic concepts of accounting, and Chapter 4 demonstrates the techniques of financial statement analysis.
We have said that the financial manager’s task is to make investment and financing 
decisions that add value for the firm’s shareholders. But that statement opens up a 
treasure chest of follow-up questions that will occupy us from Chapter 4 onward:
∙ How do I calculate the value of a stream of future cash flows? A dollar that you 
receive today is worth more than the promise of a dollar in 10 or 20 years’ time. 
So, when measuring the effect of a new project on firm value, the financial manager 
needs to recognize the timing of the cash flows. In Chapters 5 through 10, we show 
how to calculate the present value of an investment that produces a stream of future 
cash flows. We begin by calculating the present value of bonds and stocks and then 
look at how to value the cash flows resulting from capital investment projects. Present 
value is a workhorse concept of corporate finance that shows up in almost every chapter.
∙ How do I measure risk? In Chapters 5 through 10, we largely ignore the issue of 
risk. But risky cash flows are less valuable than safe ones. In Chapters 11, 12, and 
13, we look at how to measure risk and how it affects present values.
∙ Where does financing come from? Broadly speaking, it comes from borrowing or from 
cash invested or reinvested by stockholders. But financing can get complicated when 
you get down to specifics. Chapter 14 gives an overview of the sources of finance. 
Chapters 15, 16, and 17 then look at how companies sell their securities to investors, 
the choice between debt and equity, and the decision to pay out cash to stockholders.
∙ How do I ensure that the firm’s financial decisions add up to a sensible whole?
There are two parts to this question. The first is concerned with making sure that the 
firm can finance its future growth strategy. This is the role of long-term planning. 
The second is concerned with ensuring that the firm has a sensible plan for managing 
and financing its short-term assets such as cash, inventories, and money due from 
customers. We cover long- and short-term planning in Chapters 18, 19, and 20.
∙ What about some of those other responsibilities of the financial manager that you 
mentioned earlier? Not all of the financial manager’s responsibilities can be 
classified simply as an investment decision or a financing decision. In Chapters 21 
through 24, we review four such topics. First we look at mergers and acquisitions. 
Then we consider international financial management. All the financial problems 
of doing business at home are present overseas, but the international financial 
manager faces the additional complications created by multiple currencies, 
different tax systems, and special regulations imposed by foreign institutions and 
governments. Finally, we look at risk management and the specialized securities, 
including futures and options, which managers can use to hedge or lay off risks.
That’s enough material to start, but as you reflect on this chapter, you can see 
certain themes emerging that you will encounter again and again throughout this book:
1. Corporate finance is about adding value.
2. The opportunity cost of capital sets the standard for investments.
3. A safe dollar is worth more than a risky one.
4. Smart investment decisions create more value than smart financing decisions.
5. Good governance matters.
1.9 Snippets of Financial History
Now let’s lighten up a little. In this book we are going to describe how financial 
decisions are made today. But financial markets also have an interesting history. Look 
at the nearby box, which lays out bits of this history, starting in prehistoric times, when 
the growth of bacteria anticipated the mathematics of compound interest, and continuing nearly to the present. We have keyed each of these episodes to the chapter of the 
book that discusses its topic.
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
undertaking of great advantage but nobody to know what it 
is.” Within 5 hours he had raised £2,000; within 6 hours he 
was on his way out of the country. Readers nearly two centuries later could only wonder at the naïve or foolhardy 
investors in these ventures—that is, until they had a chance 
to participate in the follies unearthed by the financial crisis 
of 2008–2009. (Chapter 2)
1792 Formation of the New York Stock Exchange The New 
York Stock Exchange (NYSE) was founded in 1792 when a 
group of brokers met under a buttonwood tree* and 
arranged to trade shares with one another at agreed rates 
of commission. Today the NYSE is the largest stock 
exchange in the world, trading on average about 1.5 billion 
shares a day. (Chapter 7)
1929 Stock Market Crashes Common stocks are risky investments. In September 1929 stock prices in the United 
States reached an all-time high, and the economist Irving 
Fisher forecast that they were at “a permanently high plateau.” Some 3 years later, stock prices were almost 90% 
lower, and it was to be a quarter of a century before the 
prices of September 1929 were seen again. Eighty years 
later, history came close to repeating itself. After stock 
prices peaked in July 2007, they slumped over the next 20 
months by 54%. (Chapter 11)
1960s Eurodollar Market In the 1950s the Soviet Union transferred its dollar holdings from the United States to a 
Russian-owned bank in Paris. This bank was best known 
by its telex address, eurobank, and consequently dollars 
held outside the United States came to be known as eurodollars. In the 1960s, U.S. taxes and regulation made it 
much cheaper to borrow and lend dollars in Europe than in 
the United States, and a huge market in eurodollars arose. 
(Chapter 14)
1971 Corporate Bankruptcies Every generation of investors 
is shocked and surprised by a major corporate bankruptcy. 
In 1971 the Penn Central Railroad, a pillar of American 
industry, suddenly collapsed. At that time, it was the largest corporate bankruptcy in history. In 2008, the investment bank Lehman Brothers smashed Penn Central’s 
record. (Chapter 16)
1972 Financial Futures Financial futures allow companies to 
protect themselves against fluctuations in interest rates, 
exchange rates, and so on. It is said that they originated 
from a remark by the economist Milton Friedman that 
he was unable to profit from his view that sterling (the U.K. 
currency) was overpriced. The Chicago Mercantile 
Exchange founded the first financial futures market. 
Today futures exchanges trade 6 billion contracts a year of 
financial futures. (Chapter 24)
1986 Capital Investment Decisions The largest investment 
project undertaken by a single private company was the 
construction of the tunnel under the English Channel. This 
started in 1986 and was completed in 1994 at a total cost 
of $15 billion. The cost of the Gorgon natural gas project in 
Australia is estimated at $54 billion. (Chapters 8, 9)
1988 Mergers The 1980s saw a wave of takeovers culminating in the $25 billion takeover of RJR Nabisco. Over a 
Date unknown Compound Growth Bacteria start to propagate by subdividing. They thereby demonstrate the power 
of compound growth. (Chapter 5)
c. 1800 b.c. Interest Rates In Babylonia, Hammurabi’s Code 
established maximum interest rates on loans. Borrowers 
often mortgaged their property and sometimes their 
spouses, but lenders were obliged to return spouses in 
good condition within 3 years. (Chapter 6)
c. 1000 b.c. Options One of the earliest recorded options is 
described by Aristotle. The philosopher Thales knew by 
the stars that there would be a great olive harvest, so, having a little money, he bought options for the use of olive 
presses. When the harvest came, Thales was able to rent 
the presses at great profit. Today financial managers need 
to be able to evaluate options to buy or sell a wide variety 
of assets. (Chapter 23)
15th century International Banking Modern international 
banking had its origins in the great Florentine banking 
houses. But the entire European network of the Medici 
empire employed only 57 people in eight offices. Today 
the London-based bank HSBC has around 260,000 
employees in 71 different countries. (Chapter 14)
1650 Futures Futures markets allow companies to protect 
themselves against fluctuations in commodity prices. 
During the Tokugawa era in Japan, feudal lords collected 
rents in the form of rice, but often they wished to trade 
their future rice deliveries. Rice futures therefore came to 
be traded on what was later known as the Dojima Rice 
Market. Rice futures are still traded, but now companies 
can also trade in futures on a range of items from pork bellies to stock market indexes. (Chapter 24)
17th century Joint Stock Corporations Although investors 
have for a long time combined together as joint owners 
of an enterprise, the modern corporation with a large number of stockholders originated with the formation in England 
of trading firms like the East India Company (est. 1599). 
(Chapter 15)
17th century Money America has been in the forefront in the 
development of new types of money. Early settlers often 
used a shell known as wampum. For example, Peter 
Stuyvesant raised a loan in wampum, and in Massachusetts it was legal tender. Unfortunately, the enterprising 
settlers found that with a little dye the relatively common 
white wampum shells could be converted profitably into 
the more valuable black ones, which confirmed Gresham’s 
law that bad money drives out good. The first issue of 
paper money in America was by the Massachusetts Bay 
Colony in 1690, and other colonies soon set their printing 
presses to producing money. In 1862 Congress agreed to 
an issue of paper money that would be legal tender. These 
notes, printed in green ink, immediately became known as 
“greenbacks.” (Chapters 19, 20)
1720 New-Issue Speculation From time to time investors 
have been tempted by speculative new issues. During 
the South Sea Bubble in England, one company was 
launched to develop perpetual motion. Another enterprising individual announced a company “for carrying on an 
Finance in Practice Finance through the Ages
24
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 24 10/06/16 03:32 PM
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
eight other countries. This is not the first time that different 
countries have agreed on a common currency. In 1865 
France, Belgium, Switzerland, and Italy came together in 
the Latin Monetary Union, and they were joined by Greece 
and Romania the following year. Members of the European 
Monetary Union (EMU) hope that the euro will be a longerlasting success than this earlier experiment. As we write 
this in early 2016, the euro appears to have weathered 
the worst of the crisis caused by the Greek government’s 
debt default. (Chapter 23)
2002 Financial Scandals A seemingly endless series of 
financial and accounting scandals climaxed in this year. 
Resulting bankruptcies included the icons Enron (and its 
accounting firm, Arthur Andersen), WorldCom, and the 
Italian food company Parmalat. Congress passed the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act to increase the accountability of corporations and executives. (Chapters 1, 14)
2007–2009 Subprime Mortgages Subprime mortgages are 
housing loans made to homeowners with shaky credit 
standing. After a decade in which housing prices had consistently gone up, lenders became complacent about the 
risks of these home loans and progressively loosened 
lending standards. When housing prices stalled and interest rates increased in 2007, many of these loans went bad. 
Some large banks such as Lehman Brothers went to the 
wall, while others such as Wachovia and Merrill Lynch 
were rescued with the aid of government money. 
(Chapters 2, 14)
2011 Defaults on Sovereign Debt By 2010 the Greek government had amassed a huge $460 billion of debt. Other 
eurozone governments and the International Monetary 
Fund (IMF) rushed to Greece’s aid, but their assistance 
was insufficient, and in 2011 the Greek government 
defaulted on $100 billion of debt. It was the largest-ever 
sovereign default. Investors nervously eyed other highly 
indebted eurozone countries. (Chapter 2)
* The American sycamore, Planatus occidentalis.
period of 6 weeks, three groups battled for control of the 
company. As one of the contestants put it, “We were 
charging through the rice paddies, not stopping for 
anything and taking no prisoners.” The takeover was the 
largest in history and generated almost $1 billion in fees 
for the banks and advisers. (Chapter 21)
1993 Inflation Financial managers need to recognize the 
effect of inflation on interest rates and on the profitability 
of the firm’s investments. In the United States inflation has 
been relatively modest, but some countries have suffered 
from hyperinflation. In Hungary after World War II, the government issued banknotes worth 1,000 trillion pengoes. In 
Yugoslavia in October 1993, prices rose by nearly 2,000% 
and a dollar bought 105 million dinars. The inflation rate in 
Venezuela in late 2015 was about 180%. (Chapter 5)
1780 and 1997 Inflation-Indexed Debt In 1780, Massachusetts paid Revolutionary War soldiers with interest-bearing 
notes rather than its rapidly eroding currency. Interest and 
principal payments on the notes were tied to the subsequent rate of inflation. After a 217-year hiatus, the U.S. 
Treasury issued inflation-indexed notes called TIPS 
(Treasury Inflation Protected Securities). Many other countries, including Britain and Israel, had done so previously. 
(Chapter 6)
1993 Controlling Risk When a company fails to keep close 
tabs on the risks being taken by its employees, it can get 
into serious trouble. This was the fate of Barings, a 
220-year-old British bank that numbered the queen among 
its clients. In 1993 it discovered that Nick Leeson, a trader 
in its Singapore office, had hidden losses of $1.3 billion 
(£869 million) from unauthorized bets on the Japanese 
equity market. The losses wiped out Barings and landed 
Leeson in jail, with a 6-year sentence. In 2008 a rogue 
trader at Morgan Stanley established a new record by losing $9 billion on unauthorized deals. (Chapter 24)
1999 The Euro Large corporations do business in many 
currencies. In 1999 a new currency came into existence 
when 11 European countries adopted the euro in place of 
their separate currencies. They have since been joined by 
25
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 25 10/06/16 03:32 PM
SUMMARY
Financial management can be broken down into (1) the investment or capital budgeting 
decision and (2) the financing decision. The firm has to decide (1) which real assets to 
invest in and (2) how to raise the funds necessary to pay for those investments.
Real assets include all assets used in the production or sale of the firms’ products or 
services. They can be tangible (plant and equipment, for example) or intangible (patents 
or trademarks, for example). In contrast, financial assets (such as stocks or bonds) are 
claims on the income generated by real assets.
Corporations are distinct, permanent legal entities. They allow for separation of ownership and control, and they can continue operating without disruption even as management 
or ownership changes. They provide limited liability to their owners. On the other hand, 
What are the two major 
decisions made by financial 
managers? (LO1-1)
What does “real asset” 
mean? (LO1-2)
What are the advantages 
and disadvantages of 
forming a corporation? 
(LO1-3)
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 26 10/06/16 03:32 PM
26 Part One Introduction
managing the corporation’s legal machinery is costly. Also, corporations are subject to 
double taxation, because they pay taxes on their profits and the shareholders are taxed 
again when they receive dividends or sell their shares at a profit.
Almost all managers are involved to some degree in investment decisions, but some managers specialize in finance, for example, the treasurer, controller, and CFO. The treasurer
is most directly responsible for raising capital and maintaining relationships with banks 
and investors that hold the firm’s securities. The controller is responsible for preparing 
financial statements and managing budgets. In large firms, a chief financial officer
oversees both the treasurer and the controller and is involved in financial policymaking and 
corporate planning.
Value maximization is the natural financial goal of the firm. Shareholders can invest 
or consume the increased wealth as they wish, provided that they have access to 
well-functioning financial markets.
Companies either can invest in real assets or can return the cash to shareholders, who can 
invest it for themselves. The return that shareholders can earn for themselves is called the 
opportunity cost of capital. Companies create value for shareholders whenever they can 
earn a higher return on their investments than the opportunity cost of capital.
Conflicts of interest between managers and stockholders can lead to agency problems
and agency costs. Agency problems are kept in check by financial controls, by welldesigned compensation packages for managers, and by effective corporate governance.
Shareholders do not want the maximum possible stock price; they want the maximum 
honest price. But there need be no conflict between value maximization and ethical behavior. The surest route to maximum value starts with products and services that satisfy 
customers. A good reputation with customers, employees, and other stakeholders is 
important for the firm’s long-run profitability and value.
Who are the principal 
financial managers in a 
corporation? (LO1-4)
Why does it make sense for 
corporations to maximize 
shareholder wealth? (LO1-5)
What is the fundamental 
trade-off in investment 
decisions? (LO1-5)
How do corporations 
ensure that managers act in 
the interest of stockholders? 
(LO1-6)
Is value maximization 
ethical? (LO1-7)
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Vocabulary Check. Choose the term within the parentheses that best matches each of the 
following descriptions. (LO1-1–LO1-7)
a. Expenditure on research and development (financing decision / investment decision)
b. A bank loan (real asset / financial asset)
c. Listed on a stock exchange (closely held corporation / public corporation)
d. Has limited liability (partnership / corporation)
e. Responsible for bank relationships (the treasurer / the controller)
f. Agency cost (the cost resulting from conflicts of interest between managers and shareholders
/ the amount charged by a company’s agents such as the auditors and lawyers)
2. Financial Decisions. Which of the following are investment decisions, and which are financing 
decisions? (LO1-1)
a. Should we stock up with inventory ahead of the holiday season?
b. Do we need a bank loan to help buy the inventory?
c. Should we develop a new software package to manage our inventory?
d. With a new automated inventory management system, it may be possible to sell off our 
Birdlip warehouse.
e. With the savings we make from our new inventory system, it may be possible to increase 
our dividend.
f. Alternatively, we can use the savings to repay some of our long-term debt.
3. Financial Decisions. What is the difference between capital budgeting decisions and capital 
structure decisions? (LO1-1)
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 27 10/06/16 03:32 PM
Chapter 1 Goals and Governance of the Corporation 27
4. Real versus Financial Assets. Which of the following are real assets, and which are financial? 
(LO1-2)
a. A share of stock
b. A personal IOU
c. A trademark
d. A truck
e. Undeveloped land
f. The balance in the firm’s checking account
g. An experienced and hardworking sales force
h. A bank loan agreement
5. Real and Financial Assets. Read the following passage and fit each of the following terms into 
the most appropriate space: financing, real, bonds, investment, executive airplanes, financial, 
capital budgeting, brand names. (LO1-2)
 Companies usually buy _____ assets. These include both tangible assets such as _____ and 
intangible assets such as _____. To pay for these assets, they sell _____ assets such as _____. 
The decision about which assets to buy is usually termed the _____ or _____ decision. The 
decision about how to raise the money is usually termed the _____ decision.
6. Corporations. Choose in each case the type of company that best fits the description. (LO1-3)
a. The business is owned by a small group of investors. (private corporation / public 
corporation)
b. The business does not pay income tax. (private corporation / partnership)
c. The business has limited liability. (sole proprietorship / public corporation)
d. The business is owned by its shareholders. (partnership / public corporation)
7. Corporations. What do we mean when we say that corporate income is subject to double 
taxation? (LO1-3)
8. Corporations. Which of the following statements always apply to corporations? (LO1-3)
a. Unlimited liability
b. Limited life
c. Ownership can be transferred without affecting operations
d. Managers can be fired with no effect on ownership
9. Corporations. What is limited liability, and who benefits from it? (LO1-3)
10. Corporations. Which of the following are correct descriptions of large corporations? (LO1-3)
a. Managers no longer have the incentive to act in their own interests.
b. The corporation survives even if managers are dismissed.
c. Shareholders can sell their holdings without disrupting the business.
d. Corporations, unlike sole proprietorships, do not pay tax; instead, shareholders are taxed on 
any dividends they receive.
11. Corporations. Is limited liability always an advantage for a corporation and its shareholders? 
(Hint: Could limited liability reduce a corporation’s access to financing?) (LO1-3)
12. Financial Managers. Which of the following statements more accurately describes the 
treasurer than the controller? (LO1-4)
a. Monitors capital expenditures to make sure that they are not misappropriated
b. Responsible for investing the firm’s spare cash
c. Responsible for arranging any issue of common stock
d. Responsible for the company’s tax affairs
13. Financial Managers. Explain the differences between the CFO’s responsibilities and the 
treasurer’s and controller’s responsibilities. (LO1-4)
14. Goals of the Firm. Give an example of an action that might increase short-run profits but at the 
same time reduce stock price and the market value of the firm. (LO1-5)
15. Cost of Capital. Why do financial managers refer to the opportunity cost of capital? 
How would you find the opportunity cost of capital for a safe investment? (LO1-5)
16. Goals of the Firm. You may have heard big business criticized for focusing on short-term 
performance at the expense of long-term results. Explain why a firm that strives to maximize 
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 28 10/06/16 03:32 PM
28 Part One Introduction
stock price should be less subject to an overemphasis on short-term results than one that simply 
maximizes profits. (LO1-5)
17. Goals of the Firm. Fritz is risk-averse and is content with a relatively low but safe return on his 
investments. Frieda is risk-tolerant and seeks a very high rate of return on her invested savings. 
Yet both shareholders will applaud a high-risk capital investment if it offers a superior rate of 
return. Why? What is meant by “superior”? (LO1-5)
18. Goals of the Firm. We claim that the goal of the firm is to maximize current market value. 
Could the following actions be consistent with that goal? (LO1-5)
a. The firm adds a cost-of-living adjustment to the pensions of its retired employees.
b. The firm reduces its dividend payment, choosing to reinvest more earnings in the business.
c. The firm buys a corporate jet for its executives.
d. The firm drills for oil in a remote jungle. The chance of finding oil is only 1 in 5.
19. Goals of the Firm. Fill in the blanks in the following passage by choosing the most appropriate 
term from the following list (some of the terms may be used more than once or not used at all): 
expected return, financial assets, lower, market value, higher, opportunity cost of capital, real 
assets, dividend, shareholders. (LO1-5)
 Shareholders want managers to maximize the _____ of their investments. The firm faces a 
trade-off. Either it can invest its cash in _____ or it can give the cash back to _____ in the form 
of a(n) _____ and they can invest it in _____. Shareholders want the company to invest in _____ 
only if the _____ is _____ than they could earn for themselves in equivalent risk investments. 
The return that shareholders could earn for themselves is therefore the _____ for the firm.
20. Goals of the Firm. Explain why each of the following may not be appropriate corporate goals. 
(LO1-5)
a. Increase market share
b. Minimize costs
c. Underprice any competitors
d. Expand profits
21. Goals of the Firm. We can imagine the financial manager doing several things on behalf of the 
firm’s stockholders. For example, the manager might do the following: 
a. Make shareholders as wealthy as possible by investing in real assets.
b. Modify the firm’s investment plan to help shareholders achieve a particular time pattern of 
consumption.
c. Choose high- or low-risk assets to match shareholders’ risk preferences.
d. Help balance shareholders’ checkbooks.
 However, in well-functioning capital markets, shareholders will vote for only one of these goals. 
Which one will they choose? (LO1-5)
22. Cost of Capital. British Quince comes across an average-risk investment project that offers a 
rate of return of 9.5%. This is less than the company’s normal rate of return, but one of Quince’s 
directors notes that the company can easily borrow the required investment at 7%. “It’s 
simple,” he says. “If the bank lends us money at 7%, then our cost of capital must be 7%. 
The project’s return is higher than the cost of capital, so let’s move ahead.” How would you 
respond? (LO1-5)
23. Cost of Capital. In a stroke of good luck, your company has uncovered an opportunity to invest 
for 10 years at a guaranteed 6% rate of return. How would you determine the opportunity cost of 
capital for this investment? (LO1-5)
24. Cost of Capital. Pollution Busters Inc. is considering a purchase of 10 additional carbon 
sequesters for $100,000 apiece. The sequesters last for only 1 year before becoming saturated. 
Then the carbon is sold to the government. (LO1-5)
a. Suppose the government guarantees the price of carbon. At this price, the payoff after 1 year 
is $115,000 for sure. How would you determine the opportunity cost of capital for this 
investment?
b. Suppose instead that the sequestered carbon has to be sold on the London Carbon Exchange. 
Carbon prices have been extremely volatile, but Pollution Busters’ CFO learns that average 
rates of return from investments on that exchange have been about 20%. She thinks this is a 
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 29 10/06/16 03:32 PM
Chapter 1 Goals and Governance of the Corporation 29
reasonable forecast for the future. What is the opportunity cost of capital in this case? Is the 
purchase of additional sequesters a worthwhile capital investment?
25. Goals of the Firm. It is sometimes suggested that instead of seeking to maximize shareholder 
value and, in the process, pursuing profit, the firm should seek to maximize the welfare of all its 
stakeholders, such as its employees, its customers, and the community in which it operates. 
How far would this objective conflict with one of maximizing shareholder value? Do you think 
such an objective is feasible or desirable? (LO1-5)
26. Agency Issues. Many firms have devised defenses that make it much more costly or difficult for 
other firms to take them over. How might such takeover defenses affect the firm’s agency problems? Are managers of firms with formidable takeover defenses more or less likely to act in the 
firm’s interest rather than their own? (LO1-6)
27. Agency Issues. Sometimes lawyers work on a contingency basis. They collect a percentage of 
their clients’ settlements instead of receiving fixed fees. Why might clients prefer this arrangement? Would the arrangement mitigate an agency problem? Explain. (LO1-6)
28. Agency Issues. One of the “Finance through the Ages” episodes that we cited is the 1993 
collapse of Barings Bank, when one of its traders lost $1.3 billion. Traders are compensated in 
large part according to their trading profits. How might this practice have contributed to an 
agency problem? (LO1-6)
29. Agency Issues. When a company’s stock is widely held, it may not pay an individual shareholder to spend time monitoring managers’ performance and trying to replace poor performers. 
Explain why. Do you think that a bank that has made a large loan to the company is in a different 
position? (LO1-6)
30. Agency Issues. Company A pays its managers a fixed salary. Company B ties compensation to 
the performance of the stock. Which company’s compensation package would most effectively 
mitigate conflicts of interest between managers and shareholders? (LO1-6)
31. Corporate Governance. How do clear and comprehensive financial reports promote effective 
corporate governance? (LO1-6)
32. Corporate Governance. Some commentators have claimed that the U.S. system of corporate 
governance is “broken” and needs thorough reform. What do you think? Do you see systematic 
failures in corporate governance or just a few “bad apples”? (LO1-6)
33. Agency Issues. Which of the following forms of compensation is most likely to align the interests of managers and shareholders? (LO1-6)
a. A fixed salary
b. A salary linked to company profits
c. A salary that is paid partly in the form of the company’s shares
34. Agency Costs. What are agency costs? List some ways by which agency costs are mitigated. 
(LO1-6)
35. Reputation. As you drive down a deserted highway, you are overcome with a sudden desire for 
a hamburger. Fortunately, just ahead are two hamburger outlets; one is owned by a national 
brand, and the other appears to be owned by “Joe.” Which outlet has the greater incentive to 
serve you cat meat? Why? (LO1-7)
36. Ethics. In some countries, such as Japan and Germany, corporations develop close long-term relationships with one bank and rely on that bank for a large part of their financing needs. In the United 
States, companies are more likely to shop around for the best deal. Do you think that this practice 
is more or less likely to encourage ethical behavior on the part of the corporation? (LO1-7)
37. Ethics. Is there a conflict between “doing well” and “doing good”? In other words, are policies 
that increase the value of the firm (doing well) necessarily at odds with socially responsible 
policies (doing good)? When there are conflicts, how might government regulations or laws tilt 
the firm toward doing good? For example, how do taxes or fees charged on pollutants affect the 
firm’s decision to pollute? Can you cite other examples of “incentives” used by governments to 
align private interests with public ones? (LO1-7)
38. Ethics. Look at some of the practices described in the Finance in Practice box on ethic disputes 
in finance. What, if any, do you believe are the ethical issues involved? (LO1-7)
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 30 10/06/16 03:32 PM
30 Part One Introduction
SOLUTIONS TO SELF-TEST QUESTIONS
1.1 a. The development of a microprocessor is a capital budgeting decision. The investment of 
$1 billion will purchase a real asset, the microprocessor design and production facilities.
b. The bank loan is a financing decision. This is how BMW will raise money for its 
investment.
c. Capital budgeting.
d. Capital budgeting. The marketing campaign should generate a real, though intangible, 
asset.
e. Both. The acquisition is an investment decision. The decision to issue shares is a financing 
decision.
1.2 a. A real asset. Real assets can be intangible assets.
b. Financial.
c. Real.
d. Financial.
e. Real.
f. Financial.
1.3 Fritz would more likely be the treasurer and Frieda the controller. The treasurer raises money 
from the financial markets and requires a background in financial institutions. The controller 
requires a background in accounting.
1.4 There is no reason for the Hotspurs to avoid high-dividend stocks, even if they wish to invest 
for tuition bills in the distant future. Their concern should be only with the risk and expected 
return of the shares. If a particular stock pays a generous cash dividend, they always have 
the option of reinvesting the dividend in that stock or, for that matter, in other securities. 
The dividend payout does not affect their ability to redirect current investment income to 
their future needs as they plan for their anticipated tuition bills.
1.5 Because investors can reasonably expect a 15% return in other investments in palladium, 
the firm should take this as the opportunity cost of capital for its proposed investment. 
Although the project is expected to show an accounting profit, its expected return is only 12%. 
Therefore, the firm should reject the project: Its expected return is less than the 15% expected 
return offered by equivalent-risk investments.
1.6 Agency problems arise when managers and shareholders have different objectives. Managers 
may empire-build with excessive investment and growth. Managers may be unduly riskaverse, or they may try to take excessive salaries or perquisites.
1.7 Harry’s has a far bigger stake in the reputation of its business than Victor’s. The store has been 
in business for a long time. The owners have spent years establishing customer loyalty. 
In contrast, Victor’s has just been established. The owner has little of his own money tied up 
in the firm, and so has little to lose if the business fails. In addition, the nature of the business 
results in little customer loyalty. Harry’s is probably more reliable.
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
bre22619_ch01_002-031.indd 31 10/06/16 03:32 PM
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
32
bre22619_ch02_032-055.indd 32 10/06/16 03:41 PM
LEARNING OBJECTIVES
After studying this chapter, you should be able to:
2-1 Understand how financial markets and institutions channel 
savings to corporate investment.
2-2 Understand the basic structure of banks, insurance 
companies, mutual funds, and pension funds.
2-3 Explain the functions of financial markets and institutions.
2-4 Understand the main events behind the financial crisis of 
2007–2009 and the subsequent eurozone crisis.
CHAPTER
2 Financial Markets 
and Institutions
R E L AT E D W E B S I T E S F O R T H I S C H A P T E R C A N B E 
FOUND IN CONNECT.
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
33
PART ONE Introduction
bre22619_ch02_032-055.indd 33 10/06/16 03:41 PM
I
f a corporation needs to issue more shares of stock, 
then its financial manager had better understand how 
the stock market works. If it wants to take out a bank 
loan, the financial manager had better understand how 
banks and other financial institutions work. If the firm 
contemplates a capital investment, such as a factory 
expansion or a new product launch, the financial manager needs to think clearly about the cost of the capital 
that the firm raises from outside investors. As we pointed 
out in Chapter 1, the opportunity cost of capital for the 
firm is the rate of return that its stockholders expect to 
get by investing on their own in financial markets. This 
means that the financial manager must understand how 
prices are determined in the financial markets in order 
to make wise investment decisions.
Financial markets and institutions are the firm’s financial environment. You don’t have to know everything 
about that environment to begin the study of financial 
management, but a general understanding provides 
useful context for the work ahead. For example, it will 
help you to understand why you are calculating the 
yield to maturity of a bond in Chapter 6, the net present 
value of a capital investment in Chapter 9, or the 
weighted-average cost of capital for a company in 
Chapter 13.
This chapter does three things. First, it surveys financial markets and institutions. We will cover the stock and 
bond markets, banks and insurance companies, and 
mutual and pension funds. Second, we will set out the 
functions of financial markets and institutions and look 
at how they help corporations and the economy. Third, 
we will discuss the financial crisis of 2007–2009 and 
the eurozone crisis that followed. An understanding of 
what happens when financial markets do not function 
well is important for understanding why and how financial markets and institutions matter.
Read this chapter before you visit the New York Stock Exchange. Alexander Baxevanis/Flickr/CC BY 2.0
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
34 Part One Introduction
bre22619_ch02_032-055.indd 34 10/06/16 03:41 PM
The Importance of Financial Markets 
and Institutions
In the previous chapter, we explained why corporations need to be good at finance in 
order to survive and prosper. All corporations face important investment and financing 
decisions. But, of course, those decisions are not made in a vacuum. They are made in 
a financial environment. That environment has two main segments: financial markets 
and financial institutions.
Businesses have to go to financial markets and institutions for the financing they 
need to grow. When they have a surplus of cash, and no need for immediate financing, 
they have to invest the cash, for example, in bank accounts or in securities. Let’s take 
Apple Computer Inc. as an example.
Table 2.1 presents a time line for Apple and examples of the sources of financing 
tapped by Apple from its start-up in a California garage in 1976 to its cash-rich status 
in 2016. The initial investment in Apple stock was $250,000. Apple was also able to 
get short-term financing from parts suppliers who did not demand immediate payment. 
Apple got the parts, assembled and sold the computers, and afterward paid off its 
accounts payable to the suppliers. (We discuss accounts payable in Chapter 19.) Then, 
2.1
TABLE 2.1 Examples of 
financing decisions by Apple 
Computer
April 1976: Apple Computer 
Inc. founded
Mike Makkula, Apple’s first chairman, invests $250,000 in 
Apple shares.
1976: First 200 computers 
sold
Parts suppliers give Apple 30 days to pay. (Financing from 
accounts payable.)
1978–79 Apple raises $3.5 million from venture capital investors.
December 1980: Initial 
public offering
Apple raises $91 million, after fees and expenses, by selling 
shares to public investors.
May 1981 Apple sells 2.6 million additional shares at $31.25 per share.
April 1987 Apple pays its first dividend at an annual rate of $.12 per share.
Early 1990s Apple carries out several share repurchase programs.
1994 Apple issues $300 million of debt at an interest rate of 6.5%.
1996–97: Apple reports a 
$740 million loss in the 
second quarter of 1996. Lays 
off 2,700 employees in 1997.
Dividend is suspended in February 1996. Apple sells $661 
million of debt to private investors in June 1996. The 
borrowing provides “sufficient liquidity” to execute Apple’s 
strategic plans and to “return the company to profitability.”
September 1997: Acquires 
assets of Power Computing 
Corp.
Acquisition is financed with $100 million of Apple stock.
2004: Apple is healthy and 
profitable, thanks to iMac, 
iPod, and other products.
Apple pays off the $300 million in long-term debt issued in 
1994, leaving the company with no long-term debt 
outstanding.
2005–13 Apple’s profits grow rapidly. It invests in marketable securities, 
which accumulate to $147 billion by June 2013.
2012–13 Apple announces plans to pay out $100 billion to 
shareholders over the next 3 years. It also borrows a record 
$17 billion.
2013–15 Apple’s Capital Return Program distributes cash to 
shareholders by paying dividends and repurchasing shares. 
The planned total distribution is $200 billion by 2017.
2015 Apple issues $14.5 billion in dollar-denominated debt, 
€4.8 billion in euro debt, as well as debt issued in U.K. 
pounds, Swiss francs, and Japanese yen.
February 2016 Apple’s market capitalization, the total market value of all 
its outstanding shares, is $521 billion, far in excess of the 
$119 billion cumulative investment by Apple’s shareholders. 
The cumulative investment includes $92 billion of retained 
earnings.
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 2 Financial Markets and Institutions 35
bre22619_ch02_032-055.indd 35 10/06/16 03:41 PM
as Apple grew, it was able to obtain several rounds of financing by selling Apple shares 
to private venture capital investors. (We discuss venture capital in Chapter 15.) In 
December 1980, it raised $91 million in an initial public offering (IPO) of its shares to 
public investors. There was also a follow-up share issue in May 1981.1
After Apple became a public company, it could raise financing from many sources, 
and it was able to pay for acquisitions by issuing more shares. We show a few examples in Table 2.1.
Apple started paying cash dividends to shareholders in 1987, and it also distributed 
cash to investors by stock repurchases in the early 1990s. But Apple hit a rough patch 
in 1996 and 1997, and regular dividends were eliminated. The company had to borrow 
$661 million from a group of private investors in order to cover its losses and finance 
its recovery plan. However, the rough patch ended with the release of the iMac in 1998 
and the iPod in 2001. Apple’s profitability increased rapidly, and it was able to finance 
its growth by plowing back earnings into operations. These retained earnings had 
grown to $92 billion by September 2015.
As the twenty-first century progressed, Apple’s profits grew so fast that it piled up 
a cash mountain, which grew to more than $200 billion by 2016. It resumed cash dividends and started a massive program of share repurchases. Its Capital Return Program, 
which began in 2012, will distribute $200 billion in cash to its shareholders by 2017.
Apple is well known for its product innovations, including the Macintosh computer, 
the iPhone, and the iPad. Apple is not special because of financing. In fact, the story of 
its financing is not too different from that of many other successful companies. But 
access to financing was vital to Apple’s growth and profitability. Would we have iMac 
computers, iPhones, or iPads if Apple had been forced to operate in a country with a 
primitive financial system? Definitely not. A prosperous economy requires a wellfunctioning financial system.
A modern financial system offers financing in many different forms, depending on 
the company’s age, its growth rate, and the nature of its business. For example, Apple 
relied on venture capital financing in its early years and only later floated its shares in 
public stock markets. Still later, as the company matured, it turned to other forms of 
financing, including the examples given in Table 2.1. But the table does not begin to 
cover the range of financing channels open to modern corporations. We will encounter 
many other channels later in the book, and new channels are opening up regularly. The 
nearby box describes one recent financial innovation, micro-lending funds that make 
small loans to businesspeople in the poorer parts of the world.
The Flow of Savings to Corporations
The money that corporations invest in real assets comes ultimately from savings 
by investors. But there can be many stops on the road between savings and corporate investment. The road can pass through financial markets, financial intermediaries, or both.
Let’s start with the simplest case of a small, closely held corporation, like Apple in 
its earliest years. The orange arrows in Figure 2.1 show the flow of savings from shareholders in this simple setting. There are two possible paths: The firm can sell new 
shares, or it can reinvest cash back into the firm’s operations. Reinvestment means 
additional savings by existing shareholders. The reinvested cash could have been paid 
out to those shareholders and spent by them on personal consumption. By not taking 
and spending the cash, shareholders have reinvested their savings in the corporation. 
2.2
1
 Many of the shares sold in the 1981 issue were previously held by Apple employees. Sale of these shares 
allowed the employees to cash out and diversify some of their Apple holdings but did not raise additional 
financing for Apple.
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
The interest rates on these micro loans are relatively high; 
this is because the cost of writing and administering such 
small loans is high and the loans are made in nations with 
weak currencies. However, default rates on the loans are only 
about 4%. “There is a deep pride in keeping up with payments,” says Deidre Wagner, an executive vice president of 
Starbucks, who invested $100,000 in a microfinance fund in 
2003. “In some instances, when an individual is behind on 
payments, others in the village may make up the difference.” 
Investors and borrowers know that when the micro loans are 
repaid, the money gets recycled into new loans, giving still 
more borrowers a chance to move up the economic ladder.
Source: Adapted from Eric Uhlfelder, “Micro Loans, Solid Returns,” BusinessWeek, May 9, 2005, pp. 100–102.
Vahid Hujdur had dreams of opening his own business. With 
about $200 of his own money and a $1,500 loan, he was able 
to rent space in the old section of Sarajevo, and he began 
repairing and selling discarded industrial sewing machines. 
After just 8 years, Hujdur has 10 employees building, installing, 
and fixing this industrial machinery. Hujdur didn’t get his initial 
loan from a local bank. “They were asking for guarantees that 
were impossible to get,” he recalls. Instead, the capital came 
from LOKmicro, a local financial institution specializing in 
microfinance—the lending of small amounts to the poor in 
developing nations to help them launch small enterprises.
Microfinance institutions get capital from individual and 
institutional investors via microfinance funds, which collect 
the investors’ money, vet the local lenders, offer them management assistance, and administer investors’ accounts.
Finance in Practice Micro Loans, Solid Returns
36
bre22619_ch02_032-055.indd 36 10/06/16 03:41 PM
Cash retained and reinvested in the firm’s operations is cash saved and invested 
on behalf of the firm’s shareholders.
Of course, a small corporation has other financing choices. It could take out a bank 
loan, for example. The bank in turn may have raised money by attracting savings 
accounts. In this case, investors’ savings flow through the bank to the firm.
Now consider a large, public corporation, for example, Apple Computer in 
September 2015. What’s different? Scale, for one thing: Apple’s annual revenues for 
the previous 12 months were $234 billion, and its balance sheet showed total assets of 
$290 billion. The scope of Apple’s activities has also expanded: It now has dozens of 
product lines and operates worldwide. Because of this scale and scope, Apple attracts 
investors’ savings by a variety of different routes. It can do so because it is a large, 
profitable, public firm.
The flow of savings to large public corporations is shown in Figure 2.2. Notice two 
key differences from Figure 2.1. First, public corporations can draw savings from investors worldwide. Second, the savings flow through financial markets, financial intermediaries, or both. Suppose, for example, that Bank of America raises $900 million by a 
new issue of shares. An Italian investor buys 4,000 of the new shares for $15 per share. 
Now Bank of America takes that $60,000, along with money raised by the rest of the 
issue, and makes a $300 million loan to Apple. The Italian investor’s savings end up 
flowing through financial markets (the stock market), to a financial intermediary (Bank 
of America), and finally to Apple.
Of course, our Italian friend’s $60,000 doesn’t literally arrive at Apple in an envelope marked “From L. DaVinci.” Investments by the purchasers of the Bank of 
America’s stock issue are pooled, not segregated. Signor DaVinci would own a share 
of all of Bank of America’s assets, not just one loan to Apple. Nevertheless, investors’ 
savings are flowing through the financial markets and the bank to finance Apple’s 
capital investments.
FIGURE 2.1 Flow of savings 
to investment in a closely held 
corporation. Investors use 
savings to buy additional shares. 
Investors also save when the 
corporation reinvests on their 
behalf.
Investment
in real assets
Corporation
Shareholders
in closely
held corporation
Cash raised from Investors
share issues
Cash
reinvested
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 2 Financial Markets and Institutions 37
bre22619_ch02_032-055.indd 37 10/06/16 03:41 PM
The Stock Market
A financial market is a market where securities are issued and traded. A security is 
just a traded financial asset, such as a share of stock. For a corporation, the stock market is probably the most important financial market.
As corporations grow, their requirements for outside capital can expand dramatically. At some point the firm will decide to “go public” by issuing shares on an organized exchange such as the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) or NASDAQ; that first 
issue is called an initial public offering or IPO. The buyers of the IPO are helping to 
finance the firm’s investment in real assets. In return, the buyers become part-owners 
of the firm and participate in its future success or failure. (Most investors in the Internet IPOs of 1999 and 2000 are by now sorely disappointed, but many IPOs pay off 
handsomely. If only we had bought Apple shares on their IPO day in 1980 . . .) Of 
course a corporation’s IPO is not its last chance to issue shares. For example, Bank of 
America went public in the 1930s, but it could make a new issue of shares tomorrow.
A new issue of shares increases both the amount of cash held by the company and 
the number of shares held by the public. Such an issue is known as a primary issue,
and it is sold in the primary market. But in addition to helping companies raise new 
cash, financial markets also allow investors to trade securities among themselves. For 
example, Smith might decide to raise some cash by selling her Apple stock at the same 
time that Jones invests his spare cash in Apple. The result is simply a transfer of ownership from Smith to Jones, which has no effect on the company itself. Such purchases 
and sales of existing securities are known as secondary transactions, and they take 
place in the secondary market. Notice that Smith and Jones might be less happy for 
Apple to raise new capital and invest in long-term projects if they could not sell their 
stock in the secondary market when they needed the cash for personal use.
Stock markets are also called equity markets because stockholders are said to own 
the common equity of the firm. You will hear financial managers refer to the capital 
structure decision as “the choice between debt and equity financing.”
Now may be a good time to stress that the financial manager plays on a global stage 
and needs to be familiar with markets around the world. For example, Apple’s stock is 
traded on the NASDAQ market and also in Germany on the Deutsche Börse. China 
Telecom, Deutsche Bank, Ferrari, Novartis, Petrobras (Brazil), Sony, Unilever, Manchester United football club, and more than 500 other overseas firms have listed their 
shares on the NYSE. We return to the trading and pricing of shares in Chapter 7.
financial market
Market where securities 
are issued and traded.
primary market
Market for the sale of new 
securities by corporations.
secondary market
Market in which previously 
issued securities are 
traded among investors.
FIGURE 2.2 Flow of savings to 
investment for a large, public 
corporation. Savings come from 
investors worldwide. The savings 
may flow through financial 
markets or financial intermediaries. 
The corporation also reinvests on 
shareholders’ behalf.
Stock markets
Fixed-income markets
Money markets
Financial Markets
Mutual Funds
Pension funds
Financial
Intermediaries
Banks
Insurance companies
Financial Institutions
Investors
Worldwide Investment
in real assets
Corporation
Reinvestment
BEYOND THE PAGE
mhhe.com/brealey9e
Stock exchanges: 
From clubs to 
commercial 
businesses
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
38 Part One Introduction
bre22619_ch02_032-055.indd 38 10/06/16 03:41 PM
Other Financial Markets
Debt securities as well as equities are traded in financial markets. The Apple bond 
issue in 1994 was sold publicly to investors (see Table 2.1). Table 1.1 in the previous 
chapter also gives examples of debt issues, including issues by Virgin Atlantic and 
Entergy Arkansas.
A few corporate debt securities are traded on the NYSE and other exchanges, but 
most corporate debt securities are traded over the counter, through a network of banks 
and securities dealers. Government debt is also traded over the counter.
A bond is a more complex security than a share of stock. A share is just a proportional ownership claim on the firm, with no definite maturity. Bonds and other debt 
securities can vary in maturity, in the degree of protection or collateral offered by the 
issuer, and in the level and timing of interest payments. Some bonds make “floating” 
interest payments tied to the future level of interest rates. Many can be “called” (repurchased and retired) by the issuing company before the bonds’ stated maturity date. 
Some bonds can be converted into other securities, usually the stock of the issuing 
company. You don’t need to master these distinctions now; just be aware that the debt 
or fixed-income market is a complicated and challenging place. A corporation must 
not only decide between debt and equity finance. It must also consider the design of 
debt. We return to the trading and pricing of debt securities in Chapter 6.
The markets for long-term debt and equity are called capital markets. A firm’s 
capital is its long-run financing. Short-term securities are traded in the money 
markets. “Short term” means less than 1 year. For example, large, creditworthy 
corporations raise short-term financing by issues of commercial paper, which are 
debt issues with maturities of no more than 270 days. Commercial paper is issued in 
the money market.
fixed-income market
Market for debt securities.
capital market
Market for long-term 
financing.
money market
Market for short-term 
financial assets.
Do you understand the following distinctions? Briefly explain in each case.
a. Primary market vs. secondary market.
b. Capital market vs. money market.
c. Stock market vs. fixed-income market.
Self-Test
The financial manager regularly encounters other financial markets. Here are three 
examples, with references to the chapters where they are discussed:
∙ Foreign exchange markets (Chapter 22). Any corporation engaged in international 
trade must be able to transfer money back and forth between dollars and other 
currencies. Foreign exchange is traded over the counter through a network of the 
largest international banks.
∙ Commodities markets (Chapter 24). Dozens of commodities are traded on organized 
exchanges, such as the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) or the Intercontinental 
Exchange. You can buy or sell corn, wheat, cotton, fuel oil, natural gas, copper, 
silver, platinum, and so on.
∙ Markets for options and other derivatives (Chapters 23 and 24). Derivatives are 
securities whose payoffs depend on the prices of other securities or commodities. 
For example, you can buy an option to purchase IBM shares at a fixed price on a 
fixed future date. The option’s payoff depends on the price of IBM shares on that 
date. Commodities can be traded by a different kind of derivative security called a 
futures contract.
2.1
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Trump contracts declined. But as it became clear that Trump 
was headed toward a big victory in the New York primary in 
April, the price of Trump contracts dramatically recovered.
The red line in the figure is for “Rest of field” (i.e., a contract that will pay off $1 if anyone other than the named candidates in the figure wins the nomination). The 20 cent price for 
this contract in early April is evidence that even at this late 
date, there was meaningful uncertainty about the prospects 
for a contested convention in which someone other than the 
current leaders would be selected as the Republican candidate. By May, however, Trump futures were selling for $.92, 
and the "Rest of field" price had fallen to $.06.
Participants in prediction markets are putting their money 
where their mouth is. So the forecasting accuracy of these 
markets compares favorably with that of major polls. Some 
businesses have formed internal prediction markets to survey 
the views of their staff. For example, Google operates an 
internal market to forecast product launch dates, the number 
of Gmail users, and other strategic questions.*
* Google’s experience is analyzed in B. Cowgill, J. Wolfers, and E. Zitzewitz, 
“Using Prediction Markets to Track Information Flows: Evidence from Google,” 
working paper, Dartmouth College, January 2009.
Stock markets allow investors to bet on their favorite stocks. 
Prediction markets allow them to bet on almost anything else. 
These markets reveal the collective guess of traders on 
issues as diverse as New York City snowfall, an avian flu outbreak, and the occurrence of a major earthquake.
Prediction markets are conducted on a number of online 
exchanges such as PredictIt (www.predictit.org) and Iowa Electronic Markets (tippie.uiowa.edu/iem). Take the 2016 presidential primaries as an example. On the Iowa Electronic Markets 
you could have bet that Donald Trump would win the Republican nomination by buying one of his contracts. Each Trump 
contract promised to pay $1 if he won the nomination and nothing if he lost. If you thought that the probability of a Trump victory was 55% (say), you would have been prepared to pay up to 
$.55 for his contract. Someone who was relatively pessimistic 
about Trump’s chances would have been happy to sell you 
such a contract because that sale would turn a profit if he were 
to lose. With many participants buying and selling, the market 
price of a contract revealed the collective wisdom of the crowd.
Take a look at the accompanying figure from the Iowa 
Electronic Markets. It shows the contract prices for the various 
contenders for the Republican nomination between January 
and May 2016. You can see that as Ted Cruz beat Trump in a 
series of primaries and caucuses during March, the price of 
Finance in Practice Prediction Markets
0
0.20
0.40
0.60
0.80
1.00
25-Jan-16
02-Feb-16
10-Feb-16
10-Feb-16
18-Feb-16
26-Feb-16
05-Mar-16
13-Mar-16
21-Mar-16
29-Mar-16
06-Apr-16
14-Apr-16
22-Apr-16
30-Apr-16
08-May-16
15-May-16
Carson Cruz Rubio Trump Rest of field
Price ($)
Source: Iowa Electronic Markets, www.tippie.uiowa.edu/iem/, May 16, 2016.
2016 U.S. Republican Convention Nomination Market
39
bre22619_ch02_032-055.indd 39 10/24/16 03:38 PM
Commodity and derivative markets are not sources of financing but markets where 
the financial manager can adjust the firm’s exposure to business risks. For example, an 
electric generating company may wish to lock in the future price of natural gas by trading in commodity markets, thus eliminating the risk of a sudden jump in the price of 
its raw materials.
Wherever there is uncertainty, investors may be interested in trading, either to speculate or to lay off their risks, and a market may arise to meet that trading demand. In 
recent years, several smaller markets have been created that allow punters to bet on a 
single event. The nearby box discusses how prices in these markets can reveal people’s 
predictions about the future.
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
40 Part One Introduction
bre22619_ch02_032-055.indd 40 10/06/16 03:41 PM
Financial Intermediaries
A financial intermediary is an organization that raises money from investors and 
provides financing for individuals, companies, and other organizations. For corporations, intermediaries are important sources of financing. Intermediaries are a stop on 
the road between savings and real investment.
Why is a financial intermediary different from a manufacturing corporation? First, 
it may raise money in different ways, for example, by taking deposits or selling insurance policies. Second, it invests that money in financial assets, for example, in stocks, 
bonds, or loans to businesses or individuals. In contrast, a manufacturing company’s 
main investments are in plant, equipment, or other real assets.
We will start with two important classes of intermediaries, mutual funds and pension funds.
Mutual funds raise money by selling shares to investors. The investors’ money is 
pooled and invested in a portfolio of securities. Investors can buy or sell shares in 
mutual funds as they please, and initial investments are often $3,000 or less. Vanguard’s Explorer Fund, for example, held a portfolio of more than 700 stocks with a 
market value of about $10 billion in early 2016. An investor in Explorer can increase 
her stake in the fund’s portfolio by buying additional shares, and so gain a higher share 
of the portfolio’s subsequent dividends and price appreciation.2
 She can also sell her 
shares back to the fund if she decides to cash out of her investment.3
The advantages of a mutual fund should be clear: Unless you are very wealthy, you 
cannot buy and manage a 700-stock portfolio on your own, at least not efficiently. 
Mutual funds offer investors low-cost diversification and professional management. For most investors, it’s more efficient to buy a mutual fund than to assemble a diversified portfolio of stocks and bonds.
Most mutual fund managers also try their best to “beat the market,” that is, to generate 
superior performance by finding the stocks with better-than-average returns. Whether 
they can pick winners consistently is another question, which we address in Chapter 7.
In exchange for their services, the fund’s managers take out a management fee. 
There are also the expenses of running the fund. For Explorer, fees and expenses 
absorb about .5% of portfolio value each year. This seems reasonable, but watch out: 
The typical mutual fund charges more than Explorer does. In some cases, fees and 
expenses add up to 2% per year. That’s a big bite out of your investment return.
Mutual funds are a stop on the road from savings to corporate investment. Suppose 
Explorer purchases part of the new issue of shares by Bank of America. Again we 
show the flow of savings to investment by orange arrows:
financial intermediary
An organization that raises 
money from investors and 
provides financing for 
individuals, corporations, 
or other organizations.
mutual funds
An investment company 
that pools the savings of 
many investors and invests 
in a portfolio of securities.
2
 Mutual funds are not corporations but investment companies. They pay no tax, providing that all income from 
dividends and price appreciation is passed on to the funds’ shareholders. The shareholders pay personal tax on 
this income.
3
 Explorer, like most mutual funds, is an open-end fund. It stands ready to issue shares to new investors in the fund and 
to buy back existing shares when its shareholders decide to cash out. The purchase and sale prices depend on the fund’s 
net asset value (NAV) on the day of purchase or redemption. Closed-end funds have a fixed number of shares traded on 
an exchange. If you want to invest in a closed-end fund, you must buy shares from another stockholder in the fund.
BEYOND THE PAGE
mhhe.com/brealey9e
U.S. mutual funds
There are about 8,000 mutual funds in the United States. In fact, there are more mutual 
funds than public companies! The funds pursue a wide variety of investment strategies. 
Some funds specialize in safe stocks with generous dividend payouts. Some specialize in 
high-tech growth stocks. Some “balanced” funds offer mixtures of stocks and bonds. 
Some specialize in particular countries or regions. For example, the Fidelity Investments 
mutual fund group sponsors funds for Canada, Japan, China, Europe, and Latin America.
Bank of America Explorer Fund
Sells shares
$
Investors
Issues shares
$
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 2 Financial Markets and Institutions 41
bre22619_ch02_032-055.indd 41 10/06/16 03:41 PM
Like mutual funds, hedge funds also pool the savings of different investors and 
invest on their behalf. But they differ from mutual funds in at least two ways. First, 
because hedge funds usually follow complex, high-risk investment strategies, access is 
usually restricted to knowledgeable investors such as pension funds, endowment funds, 
and wealthy individuals. Don’t try to send a check for $3,000 or $5,000 to a hedge 
fund; most hedge funds are not in the “retail” investment business. Second, hedge 
funds try to attract the most talented managers by compensating them with potentially 
lucrative, performance-related fees.4
 In contrast, mutual funds usually charge a fixed 
percentage of assets under management.
Hedge funds follow many different investment strategies. Some try to make a profit 
by identifying overvalued stocks or markets and selling short. (We will not go into 
procedures for short-selling here. Just remember that short-sellers profit when prices 
fall.5
) “Vulture funds” specialize in the securities of distressed corporations. Some 
hedge funds take bets on firms involved in merger negotiations, others look for mispriced convertible bonds, and some take positions in currencies and interest rates. 
Hedge funds manage less money than mutual funds, but they sometimes take very big 
positions and have a large impact on the market.
There are other ways of pooling and investing savings. Consider a pension plan set 
up by a corporation or other organization on behalf of its employees. There are several 
types of pension plan. The most common type of plan is the defined-contribution plan. 
In this case, a percentage of the employee’s monthly paycheck is contributed to a 
pension fund. (The employer and employee may each contribute 5%, for example.) 
Contributions from all participating employees are pooled and invested in securities or 
mutual funds. (Usually the employees can choose from a menu of funds with different 
investment strategies.) Each employee’s balance in the plan grows over the years as 
contributions continue and investment income accumulates. The balance in the plan 
can be used to finance living expenses after retirement. The amount available for 
retirement depends on the accumulated contributions and on the rate of return earned 
on the investments.6
Pension funds are designed for long-run investment. They provide professional 
management and diversification. They also have an important tax advantage: Contributions are tax-deductible, and investment returns inside the plan are not taxed until 
cash is finally withdrawn.7
Pension plans are among the most important vehicles for savings. Total assets held 
by U.S. pension plans were about $15 trillion in 2015.
hedge funds
Private investment fund 
that pursues complex, 
high-risk investment 
strategies.
pension fund
Fund set up by an 
employer to provide for 
employees’ retirement.
4
 Sometimes these fees can be very large indeed. For example, Forbes estimated that the top hedge fund manager in 2012 earned $2.2 billion in fees.
5
 A short-seller borrows a security from another investor and sells it. Of course, the seller must sooner or later 
buy the security back and return it to its original owner. The short-seller earns a profit if the security can be 
bought back at a lower price than it was sold for.
6
 In a defined-benefit plan, the employer promises a certain level of retirement benefits (set by a formula) and 
the employer invests in the pension plan. The plan’s accumulated investment value has to be large enough to 
cover the promised benefits. If not, the employer must put in more money. Defined-benefit plans are gradually 
giving way to defined-contribution plans.
7
 Defined-benefit pension plans share these same advantages, except that the employer invests rather than the 
employees. In a defined-benefit plan, the advantage of tax deferral on investment income accrues to the 
employer. This deferral reduces the cost of funding the plan.
Individual investors can buy bonds and stocks directly, or they can put their 
money in a mutual fund or a defined-contribution pension fund. What are the 
advantages of the second strategy?  
2.2 Self-Test
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
42 Part One Introduction
bre22619_ch02_032-055.indd 42 10/06/16 03:41 PM
Financial Institutions
Banks and insurance companies are financial institutions.8
 A financial institution is 
an intermediary that does more than just pool and invest savings. Institutions raise 
financing in special ways, for example, by accepting deposits or selling insurance policies, and they provide additional financial services. Unlike a mutual fund, they not 
only invest in securities but also lend money directly to individuals, businesses, or 
other organizations.
Commercial Banks There are about 5,400 commercial banks in the United States.9
They vary from giants such as JPMorgan Chase with $2.6 trillion of assets to relative 
dwarfs like Cambridge Bancorp with assets of $1.7 billion.
Commercial banks are major sources of loans for corporations. (In the United 
States, they are generally not allowed to make equity investments in corporations, 
although banks in most other countries can do so.) Suppose that a local forest 
products company negotiates a 9-month bank loan for $2.5 million. The flow of 
savings is:
financial institutions
A bank, insurance 
company, or similar 
financial intermediary.
BEYOND THE PAGE
mhhe.com/brealey9e
The world’s largest 
banks
8
 We may be drawing too fine a distinction between financial intermediaries and institutions. A mutual fund 
could be considered a financial institution. But “financial institution” usually suggests a more complicated intermediary, such as a bank.
9
 Banks that accept deposits and provide financing mostly to businesses are called commercial banks. Savings 
banks and savings & loans (S&Ls) accept deposits and lend mostly to individuals, for example, as mortgage 
loans to home buyers.
10 Investment banks do not take deposits and do not lend money to businesses or individuals, except as bridge 
loans made as temporary financing for takeovers or other transactions. Investment banks are sometimes called 
merchant banks.
Company Bank
(Institution) Issues debt to bank
$2.5 million
Investors
(Depositors) Accepts deposits
$2.5 million
The bank provides debt financing for the company and, at the same time, provides 
a place for depositors to park their money safely and withdraw it as needed.
Investment Banks We have discussed commercial banks, which raise money from 
depositors and other investors and then make loans to businesses and individuals. 
Investment banks are different. Investment banks do not generally take deposits or 
make loans to companies.10 Instead, they advise and assist companies in obtaining 
finance. For example, investment banks underwrite stock offerings by purchasing the 
new shares from the issuing company at a negotiated price and reselling the shares to 
investors. Thus the issuing company gets a fixed price for the new shares, and the 
investment bank takes responsibility for distributing the shares to investors. We discuss share issues in more detail in Chapter 15.
Investment banks also advise on takeovers, mergers, and acquisitions. They offer 
investment advice and manage investment portfolios for individual and institutional 
investors. They run trading desks for foreign exchange, commodities, bonds, options, 
and other derivatives.
Investment banks can invest their own money in start-ups and other ventures. 
For example, the Australian Macquarie Bank has invested in airports, toll highways, electric transmission and generation, and other infrastructure projects around 
the world.
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 2 Financial Markets and Institutions 43
bre22619_ch02_032-055.indd 43 10/06/16 03:41 PM
The largest investment banks are financial powerhouses. They include Goldman 
Sachs, Morgan Stanley, Lazard, Nomura (Japan), and Macquarie Bank.11 In addition, 
the major commercial banks, including Bank of America and Citigroup, all have 
investment banking operations.12
Insurance Companies Insurance companies are more important than banks for 
the long-term financing of business. They are massive investors in corporate stocks 
and bonds, and they often make long-term loans directly to corporations.
Suppose a company needs a loan of $2.5 million for 9 years, not 9 months. It could 
issue a bond directly to investors, or it could negotiate a 9-year loan with an insurance 
company:
11 The distinction between investment and commercial banks is not a legal one. Since 2008 both Goldman Sachs 
and Morgan Stanley have held banking licenses and are supervised by the Federal Reserve. However, they are 
not in the business of taking retail deposits or providing loans.
12 Bank of America owns Merrill Lynch, one of the largest investment banks. Merrill was rescued by Bank of 
America in 2009 after making huge losses from mortgage-related investments.
Company Insurance company
(Institution) Issues debt
$2.5 million
Investors
(Policyholders) Sells policies
$2.5 million
The money to make the loan comes mainly from the sale of insurance policies. Say 
you buy a fire insurance policy on your home. You pay cash to the insurance company 
and get a financial asset (the policy) in exchange. You receive no interest payments on 
this financial asset, but if a fire does strike, the company is obliged to cover the damages up to the policy limit. This is the return on your investment. (Of course, a fire is a 
sad and dangerous event that you hope to avoid. But if a fire does occur, you are better 
off getting a payoff on your insurance policy than not having insurance at all.)
The company will issue not just one policy but thousands. Normally the incidence 
of fires “averages out,” leaving the company with a predictable obligation to its policyholders as a group. Of course, the insurance company must charge enough for its policies to cover selling and administrative costs, pay policyholders’ claims, and generate 
a profit for its stockholders.
Total Financing of U.S. Corporations
The pie chart in Figure 2.3 shows the investors in bonds and other debt securities. 
Notice the importance of institutional investors—mutual funds, pension funds, insurance companies, and banks. Households (individual investors) hold less than 5% of the 
debt pie. The other slices represent the rest of the world (investors from outside the 
United States) and other, smaller categories of investors.
The pie chart in Figure 2.4 shows holdings of the shares issued by U.S. corporations. Here, households make a stronger showing, with 37.2% of the total. Pension 
What are the key differences between a mutual fund and a bank or an insurance 
company?  
2.3 Self-Test
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
44 Part One Introduction
bre22619_ch02_032-055.indd 44 10/06/16 03:41 PM
funds, insurance companies, and mutual funds add up to 45.9% of the total. Remember, banks in the United States do not usually hold stock in other companies. The restof-the-world slice is 16.0%.
The aggregate amounts represented in these figures are enormous. There is 
$11.9 trillion of debt behind Figure 2.3 and $34.1 trillion of equity behind Figure 2.4 
($34,100,000,000,000).
Chapter 14 reviews corporate financing patterns in more detail.
Functions of Financial Markets 
and Intermediaries
Financial markets and intermediaries provide financing for business. They channel 
savings to real investment. That much should be loud and clear from Sections 2.1 and 
2.2 of this chapter. But there are other functions that may not be quite so obvious.
2.3
FIGURE 2.4 Holdings of 
corporate equities, September 30, 
2015. The total amount is $34.1 
trillion.
Insurance companies
Rest of world (5.8%)
(16.0%)
Pension funds
(13.8%)
Households
(37.2%)
Mutual funds
(26.3%)
Other
(0.9%)
Source: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Division of Research and Statistics, Flow of Funds 
Accounts, Table L.223 (www.federalreserve.gov).
FIGURE 2.3  Holdings of 
corporate and foreign bonds, 
September 30, 2015. The total 
amount is $11.9 trillion.
Source: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Division of Research and Statistics, Flow of Funds 
Accounts, Table L.213 (www.federalreserve.gov).
Banks & savings institutions
(6.0%) Rest of world
(25.4%)
Pension funds
(10.7%)
Insurance companies
(23.3%)
Mutual funds
(24.8%)
Households
(4.3%)
Other
(5.6%)
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 2 Financial Markets and Institutions 45
bre22619_ch02_032-055.indd 45 10/06/16 03:41 PM
Transporting Cash across Time
Individuals need to transport expenditures in time. If you have money now that you 
wish to save for a rainy day, you can (for example) put the money in a savings account 
at a bank and withdraw it with interest later. If you don’t have money today, say to buy 
a car, you can borrow money from the bank and pay off the loan later. Modern finance 
provides a kind of time machine. Lenders transport money forward in time; borrowers 
transport it back. Both are happier than if they were forced to spend income as it 
arrives. Of course, individuals are not alone in needing to raise cash from time to time. 
Firms with good investment opportunities, but a shortage of internally generated cash, 
raise cash by borrowing or selling new shares. Many governments run deficits and 
finance current outlays by issuing debt.
Young people saving for retirement may transport their current earnings 30 or 40 
years into the future by means of a pension fund. They can even transport income to 
their heirs by purchase of a life insurance policy.
In principle, individuals or firms with cash surpluses could take out newspaper 
advertisements or surf the web looking for counterparties with cash shortages. But it is 
usually cheaper and more convenient to use financial markets and intermediaries. It is 
not just a matter of avoiding the cost of searching for the right counterparty. Follow-up 
is needed. For example, banks don’t just lend money and walk away. They monitor the 
borrower to make sure that the loan is used for its intended purpose and that the borrower’s credit stays solid.
Risk Transfer and Diversification
Financial markets and intermediaries allow investors and businesses to reduce 
and reallocate risk. Insurance companies are an obvious example. When you buy 
homeowner’s insurance, you greatly reduce the risk of loss from fire, theft, or accidents. But your policy is not a very risky bet for the insurance company. It diversifies 
by issuing thousands of policies, and it expects losses to average out over the policies.13
The insurance company allows you to pool risk with thousands of other homeowners.
Investors should diversify too. For example, you can buy shares in a mutual fund 
that holds hundreds of stocks. In fact, you can buy index funds that invest in all the 
stocks in the popular market indexes. For example, the Vanguard 500 Index Fund holds 
the stocks in the Standard & Poor’s Composite stock market index. (The “S&P 500” 
tracks the performance of the largest U.S. stocks. It is the index most used by professional investors.) If you buy this fund, you are insulated from the company-specific 
risks of the 500 companies in the index. These risks are averaged out by diversification. Of course you are still left with the risk that the level of the stock market as a 
whole will fall. In fact, we will see in Chapter 11 that investors are mostly concerned 
with market risk, not the specific risks of individual companies.
Index mutual funds are one way to invest in widely diversified portfolios at low 
cost. Another route is provided by exchange-traded funds (ETFs), which are portfolios 
of stocks that can be bought or sold in a single trade. For example, Standard & Poor’s 
Depositary Receipts (SPDRs, or “spiders”) invest in portfolios that match Standard & 
Poor’s stock market indexes. The total amount invested in the spider that tracks the 
benchmark S&P 500 index was $134 billion in early 2016.
ETFs are in some ways more efficient than mutual funds. To buy or sell an ETF, 
you simply make a trade, just as if you bought or sold shares of stock.14  This is 
13 Unfortunately for insurance companies, the losses don’t always average out. Hurricanes and earthquakes can 
damage thousands of homes at once. The potential losses are so great that property insurance companies buy 
reinsurance against such catastrophes.
14 ETFs are in this respect like closed-end mutual funds (see footnote 3). But ETFs do not have managers with 
the discretion to try to “pick winners.” ETF portfolios are tied down to indexes or fixed baskets of securities. 
ETF issuers make sure that the ETF price tracks the price of the underlying index or basket.
BEYOND THE PAGE
mhhe.com/brealey9e
How ETFs work
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
46 Part One Introduction
bre22619_ch02_032-055.indd 46 10/06/16 03:41 PM
different from investing in an open-end mutual fund. In that case you have to send 
money to the fund in exchange for newly issued shares. And, if you want to withdraw 
the investment, you have to notify the fund, which redeems your shares and sends you 
a check. Also, many of the larger ETFs charge lower fees than mutual funds. State 
Street Global Advisors charges just .11% a year for managing the Standard & Poor’s 
500 Index Spider. For a $100,000 investment, the fee is only .0011 × 100,000 = $110.
Financial markets provide other mechanisms for sharing risks. For example, a 
wheat farmer and a baking company are each exposed to fluctuations in the price of 
wheat after the harvest. The farmer worries about low prices, the baker about high 
prices. They can both rest easier if the baker can agree with the farmer to buy wheat in 
the future at a fixed price. Of course, it would be difficult, to say the least, if the baker 
and the farmer had to contact an Internet dating service to get together to make a deal. 
Fortunately, no dating service is needed: Each can trade in commodity markets, the 
farmer as a seller and the baker as a buyer.
Liquidity
Markets and intermediaries also provide liquidity, that is, the ability to turn an investment back into cash when needed. Suppose you deposit $5,000 in a savings bank on 
February 1. During that month, the bank uses your deposit and other new deposits to 
make a 6-month construction loan to a real estate developer. On March 1, you realize 
that you need your $5,000 back. The bank can give it to you. Because the bank has 
thousands of depositors, and other sources of financing if necessary, it can make an 
illiquid loan to the developer financed by liquid deposits made by you and other customers. If you lend your money for 6 months directly to the real estate developer, you 
will have a hard time retrieving it 1 month later.15
The shares of public companies are liquid because they are traded more or less continuously in the stock market. An Italian investor who puts $60,000 into Bank of 
America shares can recover that money on short notice. (A $60,000 sell order is a drop 
in the bucket compared with the normal trading volume of Bank of America shares.) 
Mutual funds can redeem their shares for cash on short notice because the funds invest 
in traded securities, which can be sold as necessary.
Of course, liquidity is a matter of degree. Foreign exchange markets for major currencies are exceptionally liquid. Bank of America or Deutsche Bank could buy $200 million 
worth of yen or euros in the blink of an eye, with hardly any effect on foreign exchange 
rates. U.S. Treasury securities are also very liquid, and the shares of the largest companies on the major international stock exchanges are only slightly less so.
Liquidity is most important when you’re in a hurry. If you try to sell $500,000 
worth of the shares of a small, thinly traded company all at once, you will probably 
knock down the price to some extent. If you’re patient and don’t surprise other investors with a large, sudden sell order, you may be able to unload your shares on better 
terms. It’s the same problem that you may face in selling real estate. A house or condominium is not a liquid asset in a panic sale. If you’re determined to sell in an afternoon, you’re not going to get full value.
The Payment Mechanism
Think how inconvenient life would be if you had to pay for every purchase in cash or 
if Boeing had to ship truckloads of hundred-dollar bills around the country to pay its 
suppliers. Checking accounts, credit cards, and electronic transfers allow individuals 
liquidity
The ability to sell an asset 
on short notice at close to 
the market value.
15 Of course, the bank can’t repay all depositors simultaneously. To do so, it would have to sell off its loans to 
the real estate developer and other borrowers. These loans are not liquid. This raises the specter of bank runs, 
where doubts about a bank’s ability to pay off its depositors cause a rush of withdrawals, with each depositor 
trying to get his or her money out first. Bank runs are rare because bank deposits are backed up by the U.S. 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which insures bank accounts up to $250,000 per account.
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 2 Financial Markets and Institutions 47
bre22619_ch02_032-055.indd 47 10/06/16 03:41 PM
and firms to send and receive payments quickly and safely over long distances. Banks 
are the obvious providers of payment services, but they are not alone. For example, if 
you buy shares in a money market mutual fund, your money is pooled with that of 
other investors and used to buy safe, short-term securities. You can then write checks 
on this mutual fund investment, just as if you had a bank deposit.
Information Provided by Financial Markets
In well-functioning financial markets, you can see what securities and commodities are 
worth, and you can see—or at least estimate—the rates of return that investors can expect 
on their savings. The information provided by financial markets is often essential to a 
financial manager’s job. Here are three examples of how this information can be used.
Commodity Prices Catalytic converters are used in the exhaust systems of cars and 
light trucks to reduce pollution. The catalysts include platinum, which is traded on the 
New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX).
In March a manufacturer of catalytic converters is planning production for October. 
How much per ounce should the company budget for purchases of platinum in that 
month? Easy: The company’s CFO looks up the futures price of platinum on the New 
York Mercantile Exchange—$972 per ounce for delivery in October (this was the 
closing price for platinum in March 2016, for delivery in October). The CFO can lock 
in that price if she wishes. The details of such a trade are covered in Chapter 24.
Interest Rates The CFO of Catalytic Concepts has to raise $400 million in new 
financing. She considers an issue of long-term bonds. What will the interest rate on the 
bonds be? To find out, the CFO looks up interest rates on existing bonds traded in 
financial markets.
The results are shown in Table 2.2. Notice how the interest rate climbs as credit 
quality deteriorates: The largest, safest companies, which are rated AAA (“triple-A”), 
can raise long-term debt at a 2.59% interest rate. The interest rates for AA, A, and 
BBB rise to 2.62%, 3.03%, and 4.32%, respectively. BBB companies are still regarded 
as investment grade, that is, good quality, but the next step down takes the investor into 
junk bond territory. The interest rate for BB debt climbs to 5.62%. Single-B companies 
are riskier still, so investors demand 8.32%.
There will be more on bond ratings and interest rates in Chapter 6. But you can see 
how a financial manager can use information from fixed-income markets to forecast 
the interest rate on new debt financing. For example, if Catalytic Concepts can qualify 
as a BBB-rated company, and interest rates are as shown in Table 2.2, it should be able 
to raise new debt financing for approximately 4.32%.
Company Values How much was Callaway Golf worth in March 2016? How about 
Alaska Air Group, Entergy, Yum! Brands, or GE? Table 2.3 shows the market capitalization of each company. We simply multiply the number of shares outstanding by the 
price per share in the stock market. Investors valued Callaway Golf at $821 million 
and GE at $283 billion.
TABLE 2.2 Interest rates on 
long-term corporate bonds, 
March 2016. The interest rate is 
lowest for top-quality (AAA) 
issuers. The rate rises as credit 
quality declines.
Credit Rating Interest Rate
AAA 2.59%
AA 2.62
A 3.03
BBB 4.32
BB 5.62
B 8.32
Source: Thomson Reuters.
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
48 Part One Introduction
bre22619_ch02_032-055.indd 48 10/06/16 03:41 PM
Stock prices and company values summarize investors’ collective assessment 
of how well a company is doing, both its current performance and its future prospects. Thus an increase in stock price sends a positive signal from investors to 
managers.16 That is why top management’s compensation is linked to stock prices. A 
manager who owns shares in his or her company will be motivated to increase the 
company’s market value. This reduces agency costs by aligning the interests of managers and stockholders.
This is one important advantage of going public. A private company can’t use its 
stock price as a measure of performance. It can still compensate managers with shares, 
but the shares will not be valued in a financial market.
Cost of Capital Financial managers look to financial markets to measure, or at 
least estimate, the cost of capital for the firm’s investment projects. The cost of capital 
is the minimum acceptable rate of return on the project. Investment projects offering 
rates of return higher than their cost of capital are worthwhile because they add value; 
they make both the firm and its shareholders better off financially. Projects offering 
rates of return less than the cost of capital subtract value and should not be 
undertaken.17
Thus the hurdle rate for investments inside the corporation is actually set outside 
the corporation. The expected rate of return on investments in financial markets determines the opportunity cost of capital.
The opportunity cost of capital is generally not the interest rate that the firm pays on 
a loan from a bank or insurance company. If the company is making a risky investment, the opportunity cost of capital is the expected rate of return that investors can 
achieve in financial markets at the same level of risk. The expected rate of return on 
risky securities is normally well above the interest rate on corporate borrowing.
We introduced the cost of capital in Chapter 1, but this brief reminder may help to 
fix the idea. We cover the cost of capital in detail in Chapters 11 and 12.
cost of capital
Minimum acceptable rate 
of return on capital 
investment.
TABLE 2.3 Calculating the 
market capitalization of Callaway 
Golf and other companies in 
March 2016. (Shares and market 
values in millions. Ticker symbols 
in parentheses.)
Number of Shares × Stock Price =
Market Capitalization  
($ millions)
Callaway Golf (ELY) 93.8 × $8.76 = $821
Alaska Air Group (ALK) 124.7 × $80.77 = $10,074
Entergy (ETR) 178.5 × $75.92 = $13,551
Yum! Brands (YUM) 408.7 × $77.77 = $31,875
General Electric (GE) 9,331.0 × $30.34 = $283,091
Source: Yahoo! Finance, finance.yahoo.com.
16 We can’t claim that investors’ assessments of value are always correct. Finance can be a risky and dangerous 
business—dangerous for your wealth, that is. With hindsight we see horrible mistakes by investors, for example, 
the gross overvaluation of Internet and telecom companies in 2000. On average, however, it appears that financial markets collect and assess information quickly and accurately. We’ll discuss this issue again in Chapter 7.
17 Of course, the firm may invest for other reasons. For example, it may invest in pollution control equipment for 
a factory. The equipment may not generate a cash return but may still be worth investing in to meet legal and 
ethical obligations.
Which of the functions described in this section require financial markets? 
Explain briefly.
2.4 Self-Test
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 2 Financial Markets and Institutions 49
bre22619_ch02_032-055.indd 49 10/06/16 03:41 PM
The Crisis of 2007–2009
The financial crisis of 2007–2009 raised many questions, but it settled one question 
conclusively: Yes, financial markets and institutions are important. When financial 
markets and institutions ceased to operate properly, the world was pushed into a global 
recession.
The financial crisis had its roots in the easy-money policies that were pursued by 
the U.S. Federal Reserve and other central banks following the collapse of the Internet 
and telecom stock bubble in 2000. At the same time, large balance-of-payments surpluses in Asian economies were invested back into U.S. debt securities. This also 
helped to push down interest rates and contribute to lax credit.
Banks took advantage of this cheap money to expand the supply of subprime mortgages to low-income borrowers. Many banks tempted would-be homeowners with low 
initial payments, offset by significantly higher payments later.18 (Some home buyers 
were betting on escalating housing prices so that they could resell or refinance before 
the higher payments kicked in.) One lender is even said to have advertised what it 
dubbed its “NINJA” loan—NINJA standing for “No Income, No Job, and No Assets.” 
Most subprime mortgages were then packaged together into mortgage-backed securities (MBSs) that could be resold. But, instead of selling these securities to investors 
who could best bear the risk, many banks kept large quantities of the loans on their 
own books or sold them to other banks.
The widespread availability of mortgage finance fueled a dramatic increase in 
house prices, which doubled in the 5 years ending June 2006. At that point, prices 
started to slide and homeowners began to default on their mortgages. A year later, 
Bear Stearns, a large investment bank, announced huge losses on the mortgage investments that were held in two of its hedge funds. By the spring of 2008, Bear Stearns 
was on the verge of bankruptcy, and the U.S. Federal Reserve arranged for it to be 
acquired by JPMorgan Chase.
The crisis peaked in September 2008, when the U.S. government was obliged to take 
over the giant federal mortgage agencies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, both of which 
had invested several hundred billion dollars in subprime mortgage-backed securities. 
Over the next few days, the financial system started to melt down. Both Merrill Lynch 
and Lehman Brothers were in danger of failing. On September 14, the government 
arranged for Bank of America to take over Merrill in return for financial guarantees. 
However, it did nothing to rescue Lehman Brothers, which filed for bankruptcy protection the next day. Two days later, the government reluctantly lent $85 billion to the 
giant insurance company AIG, which had insured huge volumes of mortgage-backed 
securities and other bonds against default. The following day, the Treasury unveiled its 
first proposal to spend $700 billion to purchase “toxic” mortgage-backed securities.
After the failure of Lehman and the forced rescues of Bear Stearns, Fannie Mae, Freddie 
Mac, Merrill Lynch, and AIG, investors and financial institutions had to ask, “Who will 
be next? Do I dare trade with or lend money to Bank X?” In many situations, the cautious 
answer was “No.” Customary day-to-day financial transactions were canceled or completed on onerous terms.19 At the same time, trading in MBSs and other hard-to-value 
securities dried up; it therefore became even harder to know what these securities were 
worth. As banks and other financial institutions became reluctant to trade securities or 
lend to one another, the supply of credit to the economy contracted and business investment was cut back. The U.S. economy suffered one of its worst setbacks since the Great 
Depression. Unemployment rose rapidly and business bankruptcies tripled.
2.4
18 With a so-called option ARM loan, the minimum mortgage payment was often not even sufficient to cover 
that month’s interest on the loan. The unpaid interest was then added to the amount of the mortgage, so the 
homeowner was burdened by an ever-increasing mortgage that one day would need to be paid off.
19  The interest rate on interbank loans rose in 2008 to 4.6% above the rate on U.S. Treasury debt. The normal 
spread over Treasuries is less than .5%.
BEYOND THE PAGE
mhhe.com/brealey9e
Housing prices in 
the financial crisis
BEYOND THE PAGE
mhhe.com/brealey9e
Time line of the 
financial crisis
BEYOND THE PAGE
mhhe.com/brealey9e
The rise and fall of 
Lehman Brothers
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
50
bre22619_ch02_032-055.indd 50 10/24/16 03:38 PM
Few developed economies escaped the crisis. As well as suffering from a collapse in 
their own housing markets, a number of foreign banks had made large investments in 
U.S. subprime mortgages and had to be rescued by their governments. Many European 
governments were already heavily in debt and, as the cost of the bank bailouts mounted, 
investors began to worry about the ability of the governments to repay their debts. 
Thus in Europe, the banking crisis became entwined with a sovereign debt crisis.
The invention of MBSs also made mortgages liquid. They 
are actively traded among banks, insurance companies, 
mutual funds, pension funds, and endowments.
The MBS market has grown explosively. With the growth 
came more and more complexity. Issuers were not content 
with the simple pass-through MBS described earlier. They 
issued complicated packages of securities called tranches.
The most senior tranches were given first call on all cash 
flows from the mortgage portfolio and were viewed as almost 
risk-free. Bond-rating agencies gave their highest, triple-A ratings to the senior tranches, even for MBSs based on subprime mortgages for homeowners with weak credit. Many 
investors in triple-A tranches lost a lot of money in the crisis of 
2007–2009. We discuss bond ratings in Chapter 6.
The MBS market survived. It is still by far the largest source 
of mortgage financing. By 2015, the aggregate MBSs outstanding exceeded $2 trillion. MBSs are part of a broader 
market for asset-backed securities, which include securities 
that work like MBSs but are based on portfolios of other types 
of assets, including car loans, bank loans to businesses, and 
financing for commercial real estate.
Mortgage-backed securities (MBSs) provide another example of how financial markets convey savings to finance 
investment in real assets. In this case, the real assets 
are homes, which homeowners finance in part with mortgage loans.
In the old days—the 1960s, for example—most mortgage 
loans were made by local banks, savings banks, and savings 
and loan institutions (S&Ls), which accepted deposits and savings accounts and made mortgage and other local loans. We 
will use an S&L as the example. The flow of savings would be 
as described by the figure in Panel a, at the bottom of this box.
The typical mortgage was long term, up to 30 years maturity, with a fixed interest rate. The S&Ls’ liabilities—chiefly savings accounts—had much shorter maturities, perhaps a year 
or two on average. The S&Ls were therefore “borrowing 
short, lending long,” a dangerous investment strategy. When 
interest rates rose in the 1970s and 1980s, the S&Ls’ interest 
costs on savings accounts rose, too, but their interest income 
was locked up in long-term, fixed-rate mortgages. Losses 
mounted. The S&L crisis of the 1980s followed.*
The invention of the MBS allowed S&Ls to eliminate the risks 
of borrowing short and lending long. You can still get a mortgage 
from your local S&L, but now the S&L does not have to keep it. 
The S&L originates the mortgage, but will probably resell it to an 
MBS issuer—for example, Fannie Mae (Federal National Mortgage Association or FNMA†) or Bank of America. The issuer combines your mortgage with hundreds or thousands of others and 
issues an MBS backed by the combined portfolio. The MBS is 
sold to investors such as life insurance companies that want to 
hold long-term, fixed-rate obligations. Cash flows from the mortgage portfolio are passed through to investors.‡
Suppose a life insurance company purchases an MBS. The 
flow of savings would now match the figure in Panel b.
Finance in Practice Mortgage-Backed Securities
*For a history of the crisis, see Edward J. Kane, The S&L Insurance Mess: How 
Did It Happen? (Washington, D.C.: Urban Institute Press, 1989).
†Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) are 
government-sponsored entities (GSEs) charged with increasing the availability 
of mortgage credit. The GSEs purchase “conforming loans” and package and 
resell them as MBSs. Nonconforming loans—for example, large, “jumbo” 
mortgages—are packaged by banks such as Citigroup or Bank of America.
‡ You still send monthly payments to your local S&L. The S&L extracts a small 
servicing fee and sends your payments along to the MBS issuer, which also 
extracts a small servicing fee. Net cash flows from the portfolio of mortgages 
then go to the MBS investors.
Homeowner S&L
Mortgage loan
(a)
$
Investors
(Depositors) Savings account
$
Homeowner
(b)
S&L
Mortgage
loan
$
MBS
Issuer
Mortgage
loan
Issuer assembles
portfolio of mortgages
$
Insurance
Company MBS
$
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 2 Financial Markets and Institutions 51
bre22619_ch02_032-055.indd 51 10/06/16 03:41 PM
Greece was in the worst shape. It had accumulated €350 billion (about $460 billion) 
of government debt. Greece is a member of the single-currency euro club, so it had no 
control over its currency and could not just print more euros to service its debts. In 
2011 it defaulted on debts totaling €100 billion.
Greece was still on shaky ground in early 2016, despite a series of rescue packages 
from the European Union, the European Central Bank, and the International Monetary 
Fund. Spain, Portugal, Ireland, and other European countries that had also worried 
investors avoided default and seemed to be recovering. But unemployment in many 
European countries remained stubbornly high and economic growth anemic.
What lessons can you, as a student of finance, draw from these financial crises? 
Here are three. First, note the sorry consequences for the economy when financial 
markets and institutions do not carry out the functions described in this chapter. For 
example, the crisis was amplified by the sudden disappearance of liquidity in many 
markets, including the market for MBSs. That meant that potential buyers of the illiquid assets could not know for sure what they were worth. Thus, the informational function of financial markets was also compromised.
Second, why were Bear Stearns, Lehman, Merrill Lynch, and the other distressed 
firms so fragile? One reason is that they were mostly financed with borrowed money, 
much of it short-term debt that had to be refinanced frequently. Investment banks like 
Lehman typically were financed with more than 95% debt and less than 5% equity 
capital. Thus a 5% fall in their asset values could wipe out their equity “cushions” and 
leave the banks insolvent. Regulators since the crisis have therefore required banks to 
finance with much more equity. This requirement has also affected payout to shareholders. A U.S. bank’s dividend payments can be stopped by regulators if the bank’s 
equity capital ratio is not up to snuff. We cover decisions about debt versus equity 
financing and payout in Chapters 16 and 17.
Third, some causes of the crisis can be traced back to agency problems noted in 
Chapter 1. Managers in the mortgage business were probably at least dimly aware that 
promoting and selling massive amounts of subprime MBSs was likely to end badly. 
They didn’t wake up in the morning thinking, “Hey, maybe I can cause a financial 
crisis,” but their incentives did call for trying to squeeze out one more fat bonus before 
the game ended. Their incentives were not aligned with shareholders’. The value of 
their firms suffered accordingly.
SUMMARY
The ultimate source of financing is individuals’ savings. The savings may flow through 
financial markets and intermediaries. The intermediaries include mutual funds, pension 
funds, and financial institutions, such as banks and insurance companies.
It’s simple: Corporations need access to financing in order to innovate and grow. A modern 
financial system offers different types of financing, depending on a corporation’s age and 
the nature of its business. A high-tech start-up will seek venture capital financing, for 
example. A mature firm will rely more on bond markets.
In that case, the corporation is saving on behalf of its shareholders.
Mutual and pension funds allow investors to diversify in professionally managed portfolios. Pension funds offer an additional tax advantage, because the returns on pension 
investments are not taxed until withdrawn from the plan.
Where does the financing 
for corporations come 
from? (LO2-1)
Why do nonfinancial 
corporations need modern 
financial markets and 
institutions? (LO2-1)
What if a corporation 
finances investment by 
retaining and reinvesting 
cash generated from its 
operations? (LO2-1)
What are the key 
advantages of mutual funds 
and pension funds? (LO2-2)
BEYOND THE PAGE
mhhe.com/brealey9e
The Dodd-Frank Act
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
52 Part One Introduction
bre22619_ch02_032-055.indd 52 10/06/16 03:41 PM
Financial markets help channel savings to corporate investment, and they help match up 
borrowers and lenders. They provide liquidity and diversification opportunities for investors. Trading in financial markets provides a wealth of useful information for the financial 
manager.
Financial institutions carry out a number of similar functions to financial markets but in 
different ways. They channel savings to corporate investment, and they serve as financial 
intermediaries between borrowers and lenders. Banks also provide liquidity for depositors and, of course, play a special role in the economy’s payment systems. Insurance companies allow policyholders to pool risks.
The financial crisis of 2007–2009 provided a dramatic illustration. The huge expansion in 
subprime mortgage lending in the United States led to a collapse of the banking system. 
The government was forced into costly bailouts of banks and other financial institutions. 
As the credit markets seized up, the country suffered a deep recession. In much of Europe, 
the financial crisis did not end in 2009. As governments struggled to reduce their debt 
mountains and to strengthen their banking systems, many countries suffered sharp falls in 
economic activity and severe unemployment.
Do financial institutions 
have different functions? 
(LO2-3)
What happens when 
financial markets and 
institutions no longer 
function well? (LO2-4)
What are the functions of 
financial markets? (LO2-3)
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Corporate Financing. How can a small, private firm finance its capital investments? Give two 
or three examples of financing sources. (LO2-1)
2. Financial Markets. The stock and bond markets are not the only financial markets. Give two or 
three additional examples. (LO2-1)
3. Financial Markets and Institutions. True or false? (LO2-1)
a. Financing for public corporations must flow through financial markets.
b. Financing for private corporations must flow through financial intermediaries.
c. Almost all foreign exchange trading occurs on the floors of the FOREX exchanges in New 
York and London.
d. Derivative markets are a major source of finance for many corporations.
e. The opportunity cost of capital is the capital outlay required to undertake a real investment 
opportunity.
f. The cost of capital is the interest rate paid on borrowing from a bank or other financial 
institution.
4. Corporate Financing. Financial markets and intermediaries channel savings from investors to 
corporate investment. The savings make this journey by many different routes. Give a specific 
example for each of the following routes: (LO2-1)
a. Investor to financial intermediary, to financial markets, and to the corporation
b. Investor to financial markets, to a financial intermediary, and to the corporation
c. Investor to financial markets, to a financial intermediary, back to financial markets, and to 
the corporation
5. Financial Intermediaries. You are a beginning investor with only $5,000 in savings. How can 
you achieve a widely diversified portfolio at reasonable cost? (LO2-2)
6. Financial Intermediaries. Is an insurance company also a financial intermediary? How does 
the insurance company channel savings to corporate investment? (LO2-2)
7. Corporate Financing. Choose the most appropriate term to complete each sentence. (LO2-2)
a. Households hold a greater percentage of (corporate equities / corporate bonds).
b. (Pension funds / Banks) are major investors in corporate equities.
c. (Investment banks / Commercial banks) raise money from depositors and make loans to 
individuals and businesses.
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 2 Financial Markets and Institutions 53
bre22619_ch02_032-055.indd 53 10/06/16 03:41 PM
8. Financial Markets. Which of the following are financial markets? (LO2-2)
a. NASDAQ
b. Vanguard Explorer Fund
c. JPMorgan Chase
d. Chicago Mercantile Exchange
9. Financial Intermediaries. True or false? (LO2-2)
a. Exchange traded funds are hedge funds that can be bought and sold on the stock exchange.
b. Hedge funds provide small investors with low-cost diversification.
c. The sale of insurance policies is a source of financing for insurance companies.
d. In defined-contribution pension plans, the pension pot depends on the rate of return earned 
on the contributions by the employer and employee.
10. Liquidity. Securities traded in active financial markets are liquid assets. Explain why liquidity 
is important to individual investors and to mutual funds. (LO2-2)
11. Liquidity. Bank deposits are liquid; you can withdraw money on demand. How can the bank 
provide this liquidity and at the same time make illiquid loans to businesses? (LO2-2)
12. Financial Institutions. Summarize the differences between a commercial bank and an investment bank. (LO2-2)
13. Mutual Funds. Why are mutual funds called financial intermediaries? Why does it make sense 
for an individual to invest her savings in a mutual fund rather than directly in financial markets? 
(LO2-2)
14. Functions of Financial Markets. Fill in the blanks in the following passage by choosing the 
most appropriate term from the following list: CFO, save, financial intermediaries, stock market, savings, real investment, bonds, commodity markets, mutual funds, shares, liquid, ETFs, 
banks. Each term should be used once only. (LO2-3)
 Financial markets and _____ channel _____ to _____. They also channel money from individuals who want to _____ for the future to those who need cash to spend today. A third function of 
financial markets is to allow individuals and businesses to adjust their risk. For example, _____, 
such as the Vanguard Index fund, and _____, such as SPDRs or “spiders,” allow individuals to 
spread their risk across a large number of stocks. Financial markets provide other mechanisms 
for sharing risks. For example, a wheat farmer and a baker may use the _____ to reduce their 
exposure to wheat prices. Financial markets and intermediaries allow investors to turn an investment into cash when needed. For example, the _____ of public companies are _____ because 
they are traded in huge volumes on the _____. _____ are the main providers of payment services by offering checking accounts and electronic transfers. Finally, financial markets provide 
information. For example, the _____ of a company that is contemplating an issue of debt can 
look at the yields on existing _____ to gauge how much interest the company will need to pay.
15. Financial Markets and Intermediaries. List the major functions of financial markets and 
intermediaries in a modern financial system. (LO2-3)
16. Functions of Financial Markets. On a mountain trek, you discover a 6-ounce gold nugget. A 
friend offers to pay you $2,500 for it. How do you check whether this is a fair price? (LO2-3)
17. Functions of Financial Markets. What kinds of useful information can a financial manager 
obtain from financial markets? Give examples. (LO2-3)
18. Functions of Financial Markets. Look back at Section 2.3 and then answer the following questions: (LO2-3)
a. The price of Entergy stock has risen to $90. What is the market value of the firm’s equity if 
the number of outstanding shares does not change?
b. The rating agency has revised Catalytic Concepts’ bond rating to A. What interest rate, 
approximately, would the company now need to pay on its bonds?
c. A farmer and a meatpacker use the commodity markets to reduce their risk. One agrees to 
buy live cattle in the future at a fixed price, and the other agrees to sell. Which one sells?
19. The Financial Crisis. True or false? (LO2-4)
a. The financial crisis was largely caused by banks taking large positions in the options and 
futures markets.
b. The prime cause of the financial crisis was an expansion in bank lending for the overheated 
commercial real estate market.
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
54 Part One Introduction
bre22619_ch02_032-055.indd 54 10/06/16 03:41 PM
c. Many subprime mortgages were packaged together by banks for resale as mortgage-backed 
securities (MBSs).
d. The crisis could have been much more serious if the government had not stepped in to rescue 
Merrill Lynch and Lehman Brothers.
e. The crisis in the eurozone finally ended when other eurozone countries and the IMF provided a massive bailout package to stop Greece from defaulting on its debts.
WEB EXERCISES
1. Log on to finance.yahoo.com and use the website to update Table 2.3. How have market values 
of these companies changed?
2. Find the websites for the Vanguard Group, Fidelity Investments, and Putnam Investments. Pick 
three or four funds from these sites and compare their investment objectives, risks, past returns, 
fund fees, and so on. Read the prospectuses for each fund. Who do you think should, or should 
not, invest in each fund?
3. Morningstar provides data on mutual fund performance. Log on to its website. Which category 
of funds has performed unusually well or badly?
SOLUTIONS TO SELF-TEST QUESTIONS
2.1 a. Corporations sell securities in the primary market. The securities are later traded in the 
secondary market.
b. The capital market is for long-term financing; the money market, for short-term 
financing.
c. The market for stocks versus the market for bonds and other debt securities.
2.2 Efficient diversification and professional management. Pension funds offer an additional 
advantage, because investment returns are not taxed until withdrawn from the fund.
2.3 Mutual funds pool investor savings and invest in portfolios of traded securities. Financial 
institutions such as banks or insurance companies raise money in special ways, for example, 
by accepting deposits or selling insurance policies. They not only invest in securities but also 
lend directly to businesses. They provide various other financial services.
2.4 Liquidity, risk reduction by investment in diversified portfolios of securities (through a mutual 
fund, for example), information provided by trading.
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
bre22619_ch02_032-055.indd 55 10/06/16 03:41 PM
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
56
bre22619_ch03_056-085.indd 56 10/07/16 03:18 PM
LEARNING OBJECTIVES
After studying this chapter, you should be able to:
3-1 Interpret the information contained in the balance sheet, 
income statement, and statement of cash flows.
3-2 Distinguish between market and book values.
3-3 Explain why income differs from cash flow.
3-4 Understand the essential features of the taxation of corporate 
and personal income.
CHAPTER
3 Accounting 
and Finance
R E L AT E D W E B S I T E S F O R T H I S C H A P T E R C A N B E 
FOUND IN CONNECT.
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
PART ONE Introduction
57
bre22619_ch03_056-085.indd 57 10/07/16 03:18 PM
I
n Chapter 1 we pointed out that a large corporation is 
a team effort. All the players—the shareholders, lenders, directors, management, and employees—have a 
stake in the company’s success, and all therefore need 
to monitor its progress. For this reason, the company 
prepares regular financial accounts and arranges for an 
independent firm of auditors to certify that these 
accounts present a “true and fair view.”
Until the mid-nineteenth century, most businesses 
were owner-managed and seldom required outside 
capital beyond personal loans to the proprietor. There 
was little need, therefore, for firms to produce comprehensive accounting information. But with the industrial 
revolution and the creation of large railroad and canal 
companies, the shareholders and bankers demanded 
information that would help them gauge a firm’s financial strength. That was when the accounting profession 
began to come of age.
We don’t want to get lost in the details of accounting 
practice. But because we will refer to financial statements throughout this book, it may be useful to review 
briefly their main features. In this chapter, we introduce 
the major financial statements: the balance sheet, the 
income statement, and the statement of cash flows. We 
discuss the important differences between income and 
cash flow and between book values and market values. 
We also discuss the federal tax system.
This chapter is our first look at financial statements 
and is meant primarily to serve as a brief review of your 
accounting class. It will be far from our last look. For 
example, we will see in the next chapter how managers 
use financial statements to analyze a firm’s performance 
and assess its financial strength.
Accounting is not the same as finance, but the two are related.
© g-stockstudio/iStock/Getty Images RF
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
58 Part One Introduction
bre22619_ch03_056-085.indd 58 10/07/16 03:18 PM
The Balance Sheet
Public companies are obliged to file their financial statements with the SEC each quarter. These quarterly reports (or 10Qs) provide the investor with information about the 
company’s earnings during the quarter and its assets and liabilities at the end of 
the quarter. In addition, companies need to file annual financial statements (or 10Ks) 
that provide rather more detailed information about the outcome for the entire year.
The financial statements show the firm’s balance sheet, the income statement, and 
a statement of cash flows. We will review each in turn.1
Firms need to raise cash to pay for the many assets used in their businesses. In the 
process of raising that cash, they also acquire obligations or “liabilities” to those who 
provide the funding. The balance sheet presents a snapshot of the firm’s assets and 
liabilities at one particular moment. The assets—representing the uses of the funds 
raised—are listed on the left-hand side of the balance sheet. The liabilities—
representing the sources of that funding—are listed on the right.
Some assets can be turned more easily into cash than others; these are known as 
liquid assets. The accountant puts the most liquid assets at the top of the list and works 
down to the least liquid. Look, for example, at Table 3.1, which shows the consolidated balance sheet for Home Depot (HD), at the end of its 2014 fiscal year.2
 (“Consolidated” simply means that the balance sheet shows the position of Home Depot and 
any companies it owns.) You can see that Home Depot had $1,723 million of cash and 
marketable securities. In addition, it had sold goods worth $1,484 million but had not 
yet received payment. These payments are due soon, and therefore the balance sheet 
shows the unpaid bills or accounts receivable (or simply receivables) as a current 
asset. The next asset consists of inventories. These may be (1) raw materials and ingredients that the firm bought from suppliers, (2) work in progress, and (3) finished products waiting to be shipped from the warehouse. For Home Depot, inventories consist 
largely of goods in the warehouse or on the store shelves; for manufacturing companies, inventories would be more skewed toward raw materials and work in progress. 
Of course, there are always some items that don’t fit into neat categories. So there is a 
fourth entry, other current assets.
Up to this point, all the assets in Home Depot’s balance sheet are likely to be used 
or turned into cash in the near future. They are therefore described as current assets.
The next assets listed in the balance sheet are longer-lived or fixed assets and include 
items such as buildings, equipment, and vehicles.
The balance sheet shows that the gross value of Home Depot’s property, plant, and 
equipment is $40,353 million. This is what the assets originally cost. But they are 
unlikely to be worth that now. For example, suppose the company bought a delivery 
van 2 years ago; that van may be worth far less now than Home Depot paid for it. 
It might, in principle, be possible for the accountant to estimate separately the value 
today of the van, but this would be costly and somewhat subjective. Accountants rely 
instead on rules of thumb to estimate the depreciation in the value of assets, and with 
rare exceptions they stick to these rules. For example, in the case of that delivery van, 
the accountant may deduct a third of the original cost each year to reflect its declining 
value. So if Home Depot bought the van 2 years ago for $15,000, the balance sheet 
would show that accumulated depreciation is 2 × $5,000 = $10,000. Net of depreciation the value is only $5,000. Table 3.1 shows that Home Depot’s total accumulated 
3.1
balance sheet
Financial statement that 
shows the firm’s assets and 
liabilities at a particular 
time.
1
 In addition, the company provides a statement of the shareholders’ equity, which shows how much of the 
firm’s earnings has been retained in the business rather than paid out as dividends and how much money has 
been raised by issuing new shares or spent by repurchasing stock. We will not review in detail the statement of 
shareholders’ equity.
2
 Home Depot’s fiscal 2014 ended February 1, 2015. The balance sheet in Table 3.1, therefore, shows the 
firm’s assets and liabilities on this date. We have simplified and eliminated some of the detail in the company’s 
published financial statements.
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 3 Accounting and Finance 59
bre22619_ch03_056-085.indd 59 10/07/16 03:18 PM
depreciation on fixed assets is $17,633 million. So while the assets cost $40,353 
million, their net value in the accounts is only $40,353 − $17,633 = $22,720 million.
In addition to its tangible assets, Home Depot also has valuable intangible assets, 
such as its brand name, skilled management, and a well-trained labor force. Accountants are generally reluctant to record these intangible assets in the balance sheet unless 
they can be readily identified and valued.
There is, however, one important exception. When Home Depot has acquired other 
businesses in the past, it has paid more for their assets than the value shown in the 
firms’ accounts. This difference is shown in Home Depot’s balance sheet as “goodwill.” 
Most of the intangible assets on Home Depot’s balance sheet consist of goodwill.
Now look at the right-hand portion of Home Depot’s balance sheet, which shows 
where the money to buy its assets came from. The accountant starts by looking at the 
company’s liabilities—that is, the money owed by the company. First come those liabilities that are likely to be paid off most rapidly. For example, Home Depot has borrowed 
$328 million, due to be repaid shortly. It also owes its suppliers $9,473 million for goods 
that have been delivered but not yet paid for. These unpaid bills are shown as accounts 
payable (or payables). Both the borrowings and the payables are debts that Home Depot 
must repay within the year. They are therefore classified as current liabilities.
Home Depot’s current assets total $15,302 million; its current liabilities amount to 
$11,269 million. Therefore, the difference between the value of Home Depot’s current 
assets and its current liabilities is $15,302 − $11,269 = $4,033 million. This figure is 
known as Home Depot’s net current assets or net working capital. It roughly measures 
the company’s potential reservoir of cash.
Below the current liabilities Home Depot’s accountants have listed the firm’s longterm liabilities, such as debts that come due after the end of a year. You can see that banks 
and other investors have made long-term loans to Home Depot of $16,869 million.
Home Depot’s liabilities are financial obligations to various parties. For example, 
when Home Depot buys goods from its suppliers, it has a liability to pay for them; 
when it borrows from the bank, it has a liability to repay the loan. Thus the suppliers 
and the bank have first claim on the firm’s assets. What is left over after the liabilities 
End of Fiscal End of Fiscal
Assets 2014 2013 Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity 2014 2013
Current assets Current liabilities
Cash and marketable securities $ 1,723 $ 1,929 Debt due for repayment $ 328 $ 33
Receivables 1,484 1,398 Accounts payable 9,473 9,379
Inventories 11,079 11,057 Other current liabilities 1,468 1,337
Other current assets 1,016 895 Total current liabilities $11,269 $10,749
 Total current assets $15,302 $15,279
Fixed assets Long-term debt $16,869 $14,691
Tangible fixed assets Deferred income taxes 642 514
 Property, plant, and equipment $40,353 $39,064 Other long-term liabilities 1,844 2,042
 Less accumulated depreciation 17,633 15,716
 Net tangible fixed assets $22,720 $23,348 Total liabilities $30,624 $27,996
Intangible assets (goodwill) 1,353 1,289 Shareholders’ equity
Other assets 571 602 Common stock and other paid-in capital $ 8,521 $ 8,536
Retained earnings 26,995 23,180
Total assets $39,946 $40,518 Treasury stock (26,194) (19,194)
Total shareholders’ equity $ 9,322 $12,522
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $39,946 $40,518
TABLE 3.1 Home Depot’s balance sheet (figures in $ millions)
Note: Column sums subject to rounding error.
Source: Derived from Home Depot annual reports.
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
60 Part One Introduction
bre22619_ch03_056-085.indd 60 10/07/16 03:18 PM
have been paid off belongs to the shareholders. This figure is known as the shareholders’ equity. For Home Depot the total value of shareholders’ equity amounts to $9,322 
million. Table 3.1 shows that Home Depot’s equity is made up of three parts. One portion, $8,521 million, has resulted from the occasional sale of new shares to investors. 
A much larger amount, $26,995 million, has come from earnings that Home Depot has 
retained and reinvested in the business on the shareholders’ behalf.3
 Finally, treasury 
stock is a large negative number, −$26,194 million. This represents the amount that 
Home Depot has spent on buying back its shares. The money to repurchase them has 
gone out of the firm and reduced shareholders’ equity.
Figure 3.1 shows how the separate items in the balance sheet link together. There 
are two classes of assets—current assets, which will soon be used or turned into cash, 
and long-term or “fixed” assets, which may be either tangible or intangible. There are 
also two classes of liability—current liabilities, which are due for payment shortly, and 
long-term liabilities.
The difference between the assets and the liabilities represents the amount of the 
shareholders’ equity. This is the basic balance sheet identity. Shareholders are sometimes called “residual claimants” on the firm. We mean by this that shareholders’ 
equity is what is left over when the liabilities of the firm are subtracted from its assets:
 Shareholders’ equity = net assets = total assets − total liabilities (3.1)
3
 Here is an occasional source of confusion. You may be tempted to think of retained earnings as a pile of cash that 
the company has built up from its past operations. But there is absolutely no link between retained earnings and 
cash balances. The earnings that Home Depot has plowed back into the business may have been used to buy new 
equipment, trucks, warehouses, and so on. Typically only a small proportion will be kept in the bank. Notice that 
Home Depot’s balance sheet lists $26,995 in retained earnings but only $1,723 in cash and marketable securities.
Current assets
Cash & securities
Receivables
Inventories
 +
Fixed assets
Tangible assets
Intangible assets
=
THE MAIN BALANCE SHEET ITEMS
Current liabilities
 Payables
 Short-term debt
+
Long-term liabilities
+
Shareholders’ equity
FIGURE 3.1 Assets and 
liabilities on the balance sheet
When comparing financial statements, analysts often calculate a common-size 
balance sheet, which re-expresses all items as a percentage of total assets. Table 3.2 is 
Home Depot’s common-size balance sheet. The financial manager might look at this 
common-size balance sheet and notice right away that in 2014 receivables accounted 
for a higher proportion of the firm’s assets than they did in the previous year. There 
may be good reasons for this, but the manager might wish to check that the company 
has not become lazy in collecting its customers’ unpaid bills.
common-size balance sheet 
All items in the balance 
sheet are expressed as a 
percentage of total assets.
Suppose that Home Depot borrows $500 million by issuing new long-term 
bonds. It places $100 million of the proceeds in the bank and uses $400 million 
to buy new machinery. What items of the balance sheet would change? Would 
shareholders’ equity change?
3.1 Self-Test
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 3 Accounting and Finance 61
bre22619_ch03_056-085.indd 61 11/07/16 10:39 PM
By the way, it is easy to obtain the financial statements of almost any publicly 
traded firm. Most firms make their annual reports available on the web. You also can 
find key financial statements of most firms at Yahoo! Finance (finance.yahoo.com) or 
Google Finance (finance.google.com).
Book Values and Market Values
Throughout this book, we will frequently make a distinction between the book values 
of the assets shown in the balance sheet and their market values.
Items in the balance sheet are valued according to generally accepted accounting 
principles, commonly called GAAP. These state that assets must be shown in the balance sheet at their historical cost adjusted for depreciation. Book values are therefore 
“backward-looking” measures of value. They are based on the past cost of the asset, 
not its current market price or value to the firm. For example, suppose that 2 years 
ago Home Depot built an office building for $30 million and that in today’s market 
the building would sell for $40 million. The book value of the building would be less 
than its market value, and the balance sheet would understate the value of Home 
Depot’s asset.
Or consider a specialized plant that Intel develops for producing special-purpose 
computer chips at a cost of $800 million. The book value of the plant is $800 million 
less accumulated depreciation. But suppose that shortly after the plant is constructed, 
a new chip makes the existing one obsolete. The market value of Intel’s new plant 
could fall by 50% or more. In this case, market value would be less than book value.
The difference between book value and market value is greater for some assets than 
for others. It is zero in the case of cash but potentially very large for fixed assets where 
the accountant starts with initial cost and then depreciates that figure according to a 
prespecified schedule. The purpose of depreciation is to allocate the original cost of 
the asset over its life, and the rules governing the depreciation of asset values do not 
reflect actual loss of market value. Usually the market value of fixed assets is much 
higher than the book value, but sometimes it is less.
generally accepted 
accounting principles (GAAP) 
U.S. procedures for 
preparing financial 
statements.
book value
Net worth of the firm 
according to the balance 
sheet.
End of Fiscal End of Fiscal
Assets 2014 2013 Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity 2014 2013
Current assets Current liabilities
Cash and marketable securities 4.3% 4.8% Debt due for repayment 0.8% 0.1%
Receivables 3.7 3.5 Accounts payable 23.7 23.1
Inventories 27.7 27.3 Other current liabilities 3.7 3.3
Other current assets 2.5 2.2 Total current liabilities 28.2% 26.5%
 Total current assets 38.3% 37.7%
Fixed assets Long-term debt 42.2% 36.3%
Tangible fixed assets Deferred income taxes 1.6 1.3
 Property, plant, and equipment 101.0% 96.4% Other long-term liabilities 4.6 5.0
 Less accumulated depreciation 44.1 38.8
 Net tangible fixed assets 56.9% 57.6% Total liabilities 76.7% 69.1%
Intangible assets (goodwill) 3.4% 3.2% Shareholders’ equity:
Other assets 1.4% 1.5% Common stock and other paid-in capital 21.3% 21.1%
Retained earnings 67.6 57.2 
Total assets 100.0% 100.0% Treasury stock (65.6) (47.4)
 Total shareholders’ equity 23.3% 30.9%
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 100.0% 100.0% 
TABLE 3.2 Common-size balance sheet of Home Depot (all items expressed as a percentage of total assets)
Note: Column sums subject to rounding error.
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
62 Part One Introduction
bre22619_ch03_056-085.indd 62 10/07/16 03:18 PM
The same goes for the right-hand side of the balance sheet. In the case of liabilities, 
the accountant simply records the amount of money that you have promised to pay. 
For short-term liabilities, this figure is generally close to the market value of that 
promise. For example, if you owe the bank $1 million tomorrow, the accounts show a 
book liability of $1 million. As long as you are not bankrupt, that $1 million is also 
roughly the value to the bank of your promise. But now suppose that $1 million is not 
due to be repaid for several years. The accounts still show a liability of $1 million, but 
how much your debt is worth depends on what happens to interest rates. If interest 
rates rise after you have issued the debt, lenders may not be prepared to pay as much 
as $1 million for your debt; if interest rates fall, they may be prepared to pay more than 
$1 million.4
 Thus the market value of a long-term liability may be higher or lower 
than the book value. Market values of assets and liabilities do not generally equal 
their book values. Book values are based on historical or original values. Market 
values measure current values of assets and liabilities.
The difference between book value and market value is likely to be greatest for 
shareholders’ equity. The book value of equity measures the cash that shareholders 
have contributed in the past plus the cash that the company has retained and reinvested 
in the business on their behalf. But this often bears little resemblance to the total market value that investors place on the shares.
If the market price of the firm’s shares falls through the floor, don’t try telling the 
shareholders that the book value is satisfactory—they won’t want to hear. Shareholders are concerned with the market value of their shares; market value, not book value, 
is the price at which they can sell their shares. Managers who wish to keep their shareholders happy will focus on market values.
We will often find it useful to think about the firm in terms of a market-value 
balance sheet. Like a conventional balance sheet, a market-value balance sheet lists 
the firm’s assets, but it records each asset at its current market value rather than at 
historical cost less depreciation. Similarly, each liability is shown at its market value. 
The difference between the market values of assets and liabilities is the market 
value of the shareholders’ equity claim. The stock price is simply the market 
value of shareholders’ equity divided by the number of outstanding shares.
4
 We will show you how changing interest rates affect the market value of debt in Chapter 6.
market-value balance sheet
Balance sheet showing 
market rather than book 
values of assets, liabilities, 
and stockholders’ equity.
Market- versus Book-Value Balance Sheets
Jupiter has developed a revolutionary auto production process that enables it to produce 
cars 20% more efficiently than any rival. It has invested $10 billion in building its new plant. 
To finance the investment, Jupiter borrowed $4 billion and raised the remaining funds by 
selling new shares of stock in the firm. There are currently 100 million shares of stock 
outstanding. Investors are very excited about Jupiter’s prospects. They believe that the flow 
of profits from the new plant justifies a stock price of $75.
If these are Jupiter’s only assets, the book-value balance sheet immediately after it has 
made the investment is as follows:
Example 3.1 ⊲
BOOK-VALUE BALANCE SHEET FOR JUPITER MOTORS
(Figures in $ billions)
Assets
Liabilities and 
Shareholders’ Equity
Auto plant 10 Debt 4
Shareholders’ equity 6
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 3 Accounting and Finance 63
bre22619_ch03_056-085.indd 63 10/07/16 03:18 PM
5
 Jupiter has borrowed $4 billion to finance its investment, but if the interest rate has changed in the meantime, 
the debt could be worth more or less than $4 billion.
MARKET-VALUE BALANCE SHEET FOR JUPITER MOTORS
(Figures in $ billions)
Assets
Liabilities and 
Shareholders’ Equity
Auto plant 11.5 Debt 4
Shareholders’ equity 7.5
Investors are placing a market value on Jupiter’s equity of $7.5 billion ($75 per share 
times 100 million shares). We assume that the debt outstanding is worth $4 billion.5 Therefore, if you owned all Jupiter’s shares and all its debt, the value of your holdings would be 
$7.5 + $4 = $11.5 billion. In this case, you would own the company lock, stock, and barrel 
and would be entitled to all its cash flows. Because you can buy the entire company for 
$11.5 billion, the total value of Jupiter’s assets must also be $11.5 billion. In other words, the 
market value of the assets must be equal to the market value of the liabilities plus the market value of the shareholders’ equity.
We can now draw up the market-value balance sheet as follows:
Notice that the market value of Jupiter’s plant is $1.5 billion more than the plant cost to 
build. The difference is due to the superior profits that investors expect the plant to earn. 
Thus, in contrast to the balance sheet shown in the company’s books, the market-value 
balance sheet is forward-looking. It depends on the profits that investors expect the 
assets to provide. ■
Is it surprising that market value generally exceeds book value? It shouldn’t be. Firms 
find it attractive to raise money to invest in various projects because they believe the 
projects will be worth more than they cost. Otherwise, why bother? You will usually 
find that shares of stock sell for more than the value shown in the company’s books.
The Income Statement
If Home Depot’s balance sheet resembles a snapshot of the firm at a particular time, its 
income statement is like a video. It shows how profitable the firm has been during the 
past year.
Look at the summary income statement in Table 3.3. You can see that during fiscal 
2014, Home Depot sold goods worth $83,176 million and that the total cost of acquiring and selling those goods was $54,222 + $16,699 = $70,921 million. The largest 
expense item, amounting to $54,222 million, consisted of the cost of goods sold. This 
included the acquisition cost of Home Depot’s goods, the wages of its employees, and 
the other expenses incurred to obtain and sell its wares. Almost all the remaining 
3.2
income statement
Financial statement that 
shows the revenues, 
expenses, and net income of 
a firm over a period of time.
a. What would be Jupiter’s price per share if the auto plant had a market value 
of $14 billion?
b. How would you reassess the value of the auto plant if the value of outstanding stock was $8 billion?
3.2 Self-Test
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
64 Part One Introduction
bre22619_ch03_056-085.indd 64 10/07/16 03:18 PM
expenses were administrative expenses such as head office costs, advertising, and 
distribution.
In addition to these out-of-pocket expenses, Home Depot also made a deduction 
for the value of the plant and equipment used up in producing the goods. In 2014, 
this charge for depreciation was $1,786 million. Thus Home Depot’s earnings before 
interest and taxes (EBIT) were
EBIT = total revenues + other income − costs − depreciation
= 83, 176 + 337 − (54,222 + 16,699) − 1, 786 
= $10, 806 million
The remainder of the income statement shows where these earnings went. As we 
saw earlier, Home Depot has partly financed its investment in plant and equipment by 
borrowing. In 2014, it paid $830 million of interest on this borrowing. A further slice 
of the profit went to the government in the form of taxes. This amounted to $3,631 
million. The $6,345 million that was left over after paying interest and taxes belonged 
to the shareholders. Of this sum, Home Depot paid out $2,530 million in dividends 
and reinvested the remaining $3,815 million in the business. Presumably, these reinvested funds made the company more valuable.
The $3,815 of earnings that Home Depot retained and reinvested in the firm show 
up on its balance sheet as an increase in retained earnings. Notice that retained earnings in Table 3.1 increased by $3,815 million in 2014, from $23,180 million to $26,995 
million. However, shareholders’ equity fell during the year because Home Depot also 
repurchased some of its stock.
Just as it is sometimes useful to prepare a common-size balance sheet, we can also 
prepare a common-size income statement. In this case, all items are expressed as a 
percentage of revenues. The last column of Table 3.3 is Home Depot’s common-size 
income statement. You can see, for example, that the cost of goods sold consumed 
65.2% of revenues and that selling, general, and administrative expenses absorbed a 
further 20.1%.
Income versus Cash Flow
It is important to distinguish between Home Depot’s income and the cash that the 
company generated. Here are two reasons that income and cash are not the same:
1. Depreciation. When Home Depot’s accountants prepare the income statement, they 
do not simply count the cash coming in and the cash going out. Instead, the 
accountant starts with the cash payments but then divides these payments into two 
common-size income 
statement
All items on the income 
statement are expressed 
as a percentage of 
revenues.
TABLE 3.3 Home Depot’s 
income statement, fiscal 2014 $ Million % of Sales
Net sales $83,176 100.0%
Other income 337 0.4
Cost of goods sold 54,222 65.2
Selling, general, and administrative expenses 16,699 20.1
Depreciation 1,786 2.1
Earnings before interest and income taxes (EBIT) $10,806 13.0%
Interest expense 830 1.0
Taxable income $ 9,976 12.0%
Taxes 3,631 4.4
Net income $ 6,345 7.6%
Allocation of net income
 Dividends $ 2,530 3.0%
 Addition to retained earnings $ 3,815 4.6%
Source: Derived from Home Depot annual reports.
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 3 Accounting and Finance 65
bre22619_ch03_056-085.indd 65 10/07/16 03:18 PM
groups—current expenditures (such as wages) and capital expenditures (such as the 
purchase of new machinery). Current expenditures are deducted from current 
profits. However, rather than deducting the cost of long-lived machinery in the year 
it is purchased, the accountant spreads its acquisition cost over its forecasted life by 
making an annual charge for depreciation.
Thus, when calculating profits, the accountant does not deduct the expenditure 
on new equipment that year, even though cash is paid out. However, the accountant 
does deduct depreciation on assets previously purchased, even though no cash is 
currently paid out. For example, suppose a $100,000 investment is depreciated by 
$10,000 a year for 10 years.6
 This depreciation is treated as an annual expense, 
although the cash actually went out of the door when the asset was first purchased. 
For this reason, the deduction for depreciation is classified as a noncash expense.
To calculate the cash produced by the business, it is necessary to add the 
depreciation charge (which is not a cash payment) back to accounting profits 
and to subtract the expenditure on new capital equipment (which is a cash 
payment).
2. Cash versus accrual accounting. Consider a manufacturer that spends $60 to 
produce goods in period 1. In period 2 it sells these goods for $100, but its customers 
pay their bills with a delay, so payment is not received until period 3. The following 
diagram shows the firm’s cash flows. In period 1 there is a cash outflow of $60. 
Then, when customers pay their bills in period 3, there is an inflow of $100.
+$100 (collect payment)
-$60 (pay for goods)
1 2 3 Period
6
 We discuss depreciation rules in Chapter 9.
It would be misleading to say that the firm was running at a loss in period 1 
(when cash flow was negative) or that it was extremely profitable in period 3 (when 
cash flow was positive). Therefore, to construct the income statement, the 
accountant looks at when the sale was made (period 2 in our example) and gathers 
together all the revenues and expenses associated with that sale. For our company, 
the income statement would show:
Revenue $100
Less cost of goods sold 60
Profit $ 40
This practice of matching revenues and expenses is known as accrual accounting.
Of course, the accountant does not ignore the actual timing of the cash expenditures 
and payments. So the cash outlay in the first period will be treated not as an expense 
but as an investment in inventories. Subsequently, in period 2, when the goods are 
taken out of inventory and sold, the accountant shows a reduction in inventories.
To go from the cost of goods sold in the income statement to the cash outflows, 
we need to subtract the investment in inventories that is shown in the balance sheet:
Period: 1 2
 Cost of goods sold (income statement) 0 60
+ Investment in inventories (balance sheet) 60 −60
= Cash paid out 60 0
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
66 Part One Introduction
bre22619_ch03_056-085.indd 66 10/07/16 03:18 PM
The accountant also does not ignore the fact that the firm has to wait until period 3 
to collect its bills. When the sale is made in period 2, the figure for accounts receivable 
in the balance sheet is increased to show that the company’s customers owe an extra 
$100 in unpaid bills. Later, when the customers pay those bills in period 3, accounts 
receivable are reduced by $100. Therefore, to go from the sales shown in the income 
statement to the cash inflows, we need to subtract the investment in receivables:
Period: 2 3
 Sales (income statement) 100 0
− Investment in receivables (balance sheet) 100 −100
= Cash received 0 +100
We will return to these issues in more detail in Chapter 9, but for now we summarize the key points as follows: Cash outflow is equal to the cost of goods sold, which is 
shown in the income statement, plus the change in inventories. Cash inflow is equal to 
the sales shown in the income statement less the change in uncollected bills.
Profits versus Cash Flows
Suppose our manufacturer spends a further $80 to produce goods in period 2. It sells these 
goods in period 3 for $120, but customers do not pay their bills until period 4.
The cash flows from these transactions are now as follows:
Example 3.2 ⊲
Period: 1 2 3
 Cost of goods sold (income statement) 0 60 80
+ Investment in inventories (balance sheet) 60 −60 + 80 = 20 −80
= Cash paid out 60 80 0
$100
(collect payment)
$120
(collect further payment)
-$60
(pay for goods) -$80
(pay for more goods)
1 2 3 4 Period
How do the new transactions affect the income statement and the balance sheet? 
The income statement will match costs with revenues and record the cost of goods sold 
when the sales are made in periods 1 and 2. The difference between the costs shown in the 
income statement and the cash flows is recorded as an investment (and later, disinvestment) 
in inventories. Thus, in period 1 the accountant shows an investment in inventories of 
$60 just as before. In period 2, these goods are taken out of inventory and sold, but the firm 
also produces a further $80 of goods. Thus, there is a net increase in inventories of $20. 
As these goods in turn are sold in period 3, inventories are reduced by $80. The following 
table confirms that the cash outflow in each period is equal to the cost of goods sold that is 
shown in the income statement plus the change in inventories.
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 3 Accounting and Finance 67
bre22619_ch03_056-085.indd 67 10/07/16 03:18 PM
The Statement of Cash Flows
The firm requires cash when it buys new plant and machinery or when it pays interest 
to the bank and dividends to the shareholders. Therefore, the financial manager needs 
to keep track of the cash that is coming in and going out.
We have seen that the firm’s cash flow can be quite different from its net income. 
These differences can arise for at least two reasons:
1. The income statement does not recognize capital expenditures as expenses in the 
year that the capital goods are paid for. Instead, it spreads those expenses over time 
in the form of an annual deduction for depreciation.
2. The income statement uses the accrual method of accounting, which means that 
revenues and expenses are recognized when sales are made, rather than when the 
cash is received or paid out.
The statement of cash flows shows the firm’s cash inflows and outflows from operations as well as from its investments and financing activities. Table 3.4 is the cash-flow 
statement for Home Depot. It contains three sections. The first shows the cash flow from 
operations. This is the cash generated from Home Depot’s normal business activities. 
Next comes the cash that Home Depot has invested in plant and equipment or in the 
acquisition of new businesses. The final section reports cash flows from financing activities such as the sale of new debt or stock. We will look at each of these sections in turn.
The first section, cash flow from operations, starts with net income but adjusts that 
figure for those parts of the income statement that do not involve cash coming in or 
going out. Therefore, it adds back the allowance for depreciation because depreciation 
is not a cash outflow, even though it is treated as an expense in the income statement.
Any additions to current assets (other than cash itself) need to be subtracted from 
net income because these absorb cash but do not show up in the income statement. 
Conversely, any additions to current liabilities need to be added to net income because 
these release cash. For example, you can see that the increase of $86 million in accounts 
3.3
statement of cash flows
Financial statement that 
shows the firm’s cash 
receipts and cash payments 
over a period of time.
Period: 2 3 4
 Sales (income statement) 100 120 0
− Investment in receivables (balance sheet) 100 −100 + 120 = 20 −120
= Cash received 0 +100 +120
The following table provides a similar reconciliation of the difference between the revenues shown in the income statement and the cash inflow:
In the income statement the accountant records sales of $100 in period 1 and $120 in 
period 2. The fact that the firm has to wait for payment is recognized in the balance sheet as 
an investment in receivables. The cash that the company receives is equal to the sales 
shown in the income statement less the investment in receivables. ■
Consider a firm that spends $200 to produce goods in period 1. In period 2, 
it sells half of those goods for $150, but it doesn’t collect payment until one 
period later. In period 3, it sells the other half of the goods for $150, and it 
collects payment on these sales in period 4. Calculate the profits and the cash 
flows for this firm in periods 1 to 4.
3.3 Self-Test
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
68 Part One Introduction
bre22619_ch03_056-085.indd 68 10/24/16 04:23 PM
receivable is deducted from income. In addition, Home Depot increased inventories by 
$22 million. This increase in inventory levels also absorbed cash and must be deducted 
from net income when calculating cash flows. On the other hand, Home Depot does 
not pay all its bills immediately. These delayed payments show up as payables. 
In 2014, Home Depot had larger bills outstanding than a year earlier: Accounts 
payable increased by $94 million. Delaying these payments freed up extra cash.
We have pointed out that depreciation is not a cash payment; it is simply the accountant’s allocation to the current year of the original cost of the capital equipment. 
However, cash does flow out the door when the firm actually buys and pays for 
new capital equipment. Therefore, these capital expenditures are set out in the second 
section of the cash-flow statement. You can see that Home Depot spent $1,289 million 
on new capital equipment. Notice that (gross) property, plant, and equipment on 
Home Depot’s balance sheet increased by precisely this amount. On the other hand, 
Home Depot freed up $31 million by selling off other investments. Total cash used by 
investments was $1,258 million.
Finally, the third section of the cash-flow statement shows the cash from financing 
activities. For example, Home Depot raised $2,178 million by issuing long-term debt. 
But it paid out $2,530 million to stockholders in the form of dividends and used 
another $7,000 million to repurchase stock.7
To summarize, the cash-flow statement tells us that Home Depot generated $8,127 
million from operations, spent $1,258 million on new investments, and used $7,075 
million in financing activities. Home Depot earned and raised less cash than it spent. 
7
 You might think that interest payments also ought to be listed in this section. However, it is usual to include 
interest in the first section with cash flow from operations. This is because, unlike dividends, interest payments 
are not discretionary. The firm must pay interest when a payment comes due, so these payments are treated as a 
business expense rather than as a financing decision.
TABLE 3.4 Home Depot’s 
statement of cash flows (figures 
in $ millions)
Cash Provided by Operations
Net income $6,345
Depreciation 1,786
Changes in working capital items
Decrease (increase) in accounts receivable −86
Decrease (increase) in inventories −22
Decrease (increase) in other current assets −121
Increase (decrease) in accounts payable 94
Increase (decrease) in other current liabilities 131
 Total decrease (increase) in working capital −$ 4
Cash provided by operations $8,127
Cash Flows from Investments
Cash provided by (used for) disposal of (additions to) property, 
plant, and equipment
−$1,289
Sales (acquisitions) of other long-term assets 31
Cash provided by (used for) investments −$1,258
Cash Provided by (Used for) Financing Activities
Increase (decrease) in short-term debt $ 295
Increase (decrease) in long-term debt 2,178
Dividends −2,530
Repurchases of stock −7,000
Other −18
Cash provided by (used for) financing activities −$7,075
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents −$ 206
Source: Calculated from data in Tables 3.1 and 3.3.
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 3 Accounting and Finance 69
bre22619_ch03_056-085.indd 69 10/07/16 03:18 PM
Therefore, its cash balance decreased by $206 million. To calculate this change in 
cash balance, we subtract the uses of cash from the sources:
In Millions
 Cash flow from operations $8,127
− Cash flow for new investment −1,258
+ Cash provided by new financing −7,075
= Change in cash balance −$ 206
Look back at Table 3.1 and you will see that cash accounts on the balance sheet did 
indeed decrease by $206 million in 2014.8
8
 Home Depot’s published statement of cash flows differs from the cash-flow statement that we derived from 
the balance sheet and income statement. This is a common occurrence, particularly if the company has engaged 
in mergers or divestitures during the year.
Free Cash Flow
The value of a company depends on how much cash it can generate for investors after 
it has paid for any new capital investments. This cash is called the company’s 
free cash flow. Free cash flow is available to be paid out to investors as interest or 
dividends or to repay debt or buy back stock.
free cash flow
Cash available for 
distribution to investors 
after firm pays for new 
investments or additions to 
working capital.
Free Cash Flow for Home Depot
Let’s use Home Depot’s income and cash-flow statements to calculate its free cash flow in 
2014. We start with the earnings produced by the firm’s ongoing operations. This is equal to 
Net income + debt interest = $6,345 + $830 = $7,175 million
We need to make two adjustments to this figure for those parts of the income statement 
that do not involve cash coming in or going out. First, we must add back depreciation 
because depreciation is not a cash outflow, even though it is treated as an expense in the 
income statement. Second, accounting income is not cash in the bank. For example, the firm 
may need to lay out money to buy materials ahead of time, or its customers may not pay for 
their purchases immediately. Therefore, to measure the cash from ongoing operations, we 
need to subtract those additions to net working capital shown in the top panel of the statement of cash flows. This gives us cash flow from operations:
Cash flow from operations = (net income + interest) + depreciation − additions to
net working capital 
 = $7,175 + $1,786 − $4 = $8,957 million
Example 3.3 ⊲
Would the following activities increase or decrease the firm’s cash balance?
a. Inventories are increased.
b. The firm reduces its accounts payable.
c. The firm issues additional common stock.
d. The firm buys new equipment.
3.4 Self-Test
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
70 Part One Introduction
bre22619_ch03_056-085.indd 70 10/07/16 03:18 PM
Accounting Practice and Malpractice
Managers of public companies face constant scrutiny. Much of that scrutiny focuses 
on earnings. Security analysts forecast earnings per share, and investors then wait to 
see whether the company can meet or beat the forecasts. A shortfall, even if it is only a 
cent or two, can be a big disappointment. Investors might judge that if you could not 
find that extra cent or two of earnings, the firm must be in a really bad way.
Managers complain about this pressure, but do they do anything about it? Unfortunately, the answer appears to be yes, according to Graham, Harvey, and Rajgopal, who 
surveyed about 400 senior managers.11 Most of the managers said that accounting 
earnings were the single most important number reported to investors. Most admitted 
to adjusting their firms’ operations and investments to produce the earnings that investors were looking for. For example, 80% were prepared to decrease discretionary 
spending on R&D, advertising, or plant maintenance to meet earnings targets.
Of course, managers may not need to adjust the firm’s operations if they can instead 
adjust their accounting methods. U.S. accounting rules are spelled out by the Financial 
Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and its generally accepted accounting principles 
(GAAP). Yet, inevitably, rules and principles leave room for discretion, and managers 
under pressure to perform are tempted to take advantage of this leeway to satisfy 
3.4
This cash is not all available to be paid out to investors, for the company needs some of 
the cash for new capital expenditures. So the capital that is free for distribution is
Free cash flow = cash flow from operations − capital expenditures
= $8,957 − $1,258 = $7,699 million
Notice that free cash flow differs from the addition-to-cash balances found in the statement of cash flows (Table 3.4). First, when we calculate free cash flow, we ignore altogether 
items in the last panel of Table 3.4, “Cash provided by financing activities.”9 This is because 
free cash flow measures how much cash the company’s operations generate for possible 
distribution to investors. The available amount should not be confused with the amount that 
the company actually raised by financing activities. Second, we add back interest payments 
when computing free cash flow, as those payments are part of the distributions made to 
investors.10
It is often useful to ask what Home Depot’s free cash flow would have been if the 
company had been financed entirely by equity. In that case, all the free cash flow would 
belong to the shareholders. However, if Home Depot no longer paid out $830 million as 
interest, pretax income would be increased by that amount, and the company would pay an 
additional .35 × 830 = $290.50 million in tax. Thus, if the company was financed solely 
by equity, free cash flow would have been $7,699 − $290.50 = $7,408.50 million. ■
9
 For this reason, when we calculated cash flow from operations, we ignored the change in holdings of shortterm debt, even though this short-term debt is listed under current liabilities. We were interested only in the 
items of working capital that arose from the firm’s operations.
10 We can check the logic linking free cash flow to the statement of cash flows as follows:
11 J. R. Graham, C. R. Harvey, and S. Rajgopal, “The Economic Implications of Corporate Financial Reporting,” 
Journal of Accounting and Economics 40 (2005), pp. 3–73.
 Increase in cash balance from Table 3.4 −$ 206
+ Cash used for financing activities from Table 3.4 7,075
+ Interest payments 830
 Free cash flow $7,699
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 3 Accounting and Finance 71
bre22619_ch03_056-085.indd 71 10/07/16 03:18 PM
investors. Investors worry about the fact that some companies seem particularly prone 
to inflate their earnings by playing fast and loose with accounting practice. They refer 
to such companies as having “low-quality” earnings, and they place a correspondingly 
lower value on the firms’ stock.
Here are some examples of ambiguities in accounting rules that have been used by 
companies to conceal unflattering information:
∙ Revenue recognition. As we saw earlier, firms record a sale when it is made, not 
when the customer actually pays. But the date of sale is not always obvious. 
Suppose it is November and you are concerned that if your firm does not meet its 
sales target, you can forget about your annual bonus. You contact your main 
customers, and they agree to increase their December orders as long as they have 
the right to return any unsold goods. Your firm then books these shipments as 
“sales,” even though there is a high likelihood that many of the goods will be 
returned. That is almost certainly illegal and will get you into serious trouble. 
But suppose instead that you tell your customers that the price of your product 
may rise in the new year and suggest that they place an extra order in December. 
This practice, known as “channel stuffing,” increases this year’s sales at the 
expense of next year’s sales.
 Many companies have been thought to use channel stuffing to overstate their 
earnings, but very blatant instances are liable to attract the SEC’s attention. 
For example, in 2002 the pharmaceutical giant, Bristol Myers Squibb, disclosed 
that wholesalers were holding hundreds of millions of dollars in excessive 
inventories of its products and the company’s earnings for 2002 might be just half 
of its 2001 earnings as wholesalers worked down these inventories. Following an 
investigation by the SEC, the company agreed to pay $150 million to settle 
accusations that this channel stuffing had improperly inflated its sales and earnings. 
In Chapter 1, we mentioned Hewlett-Packard’s disastrous acquisition of the British 
company Autonomy. Hewlett-Packard paid $11.1 billion for Autonomy. Just over a 
year later, it wrote down the value of the company by $8.8 billion, alleging that 
Autonomy had used channel stuffing to greatly inflate its revenues.
∙ Cookie-jar reserves. The giant mortgage-pass-through firm Freddie Mac earned the 
Wall Street nickname “Steady Freddie” for its unusually smooth and predictable 
pattern of earnings growth, at least until 2008 when it suddenly collapsed in the 
wake of the meltdown in subprime mortgages. Unfortunately, it emerged in 2003 
that Freddie achieved this predictability in part by misusing its reserve accounts. 
Normally, such accounts are intended to allow for the likely impact of events 
that might reduce earnings, such as the failure of customers to pay their bills. 
But Freddie seemed to “overreserve” against such contingencies so that it could 
“release” those reserves and bolster income in a bad year. Its steady growth was 
largely a matter of earnings management.
∙ Off–balance sheet assets and liabilities. Before its bankruptcy in 2001 (at that time, 
the second largest in U.S. history), Enron had accumulated large debts and had also 
guaranteed the debts of other companies in which it had an ownership stake. 
To present a fair view of the firm, Enron should have recognized these potential 
liabilities on its balance sheet. But the firm created and placed paper firms—
so-called special-purpose entities (SPEs)—in the middle of its transactions and 
excluded these liabilities from its financial statements.
The collapse of Enron illustrates how dishonest managers with creamy compensation packages may be tempted to conceal the truth from investors. If the company had 
been more transparent to outsiders—that is, if they could have assessed its true profitability and prospects—its problems would have shown up right away in a falling stock 
price. This in turn would have generated extra scrutiny from security analysts, bond 
rating agencies, lenders, and investors.
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
72
bre22619_ch03_056-085.indd 72 10/07/16 03:18 PM
With transparency, corporate troubles generally lead to corrective action. But the 
top management of a troubled and opaque company may be able to maintain its stock 
price and postpone the discipline of the market. Market discipline caught up with 
Enron only a month or two before bankruptcy.
Enron was not the only company to be mired in accounting scandals in the early 
years of the century. Firms such as Global Crossing, Qwest Communications, and 
WorldCom misstated profits by billions of dollars. Overseas, the Italian dairy company Parmalat falsified the existence of a bank account to the tune of $5.5 billion, and 
the French media and entertainment company Vivendi came close to bankruptcy after 
it was accused of accounting fraud. In response to these scandals, Congress passed the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act, widely known as SOX. A major goal of SOX is to increase transparency and ensure that companies and their accountants provide directors, lenders, 
and shareholders with the information they need to monitor progress.
SOX created the Public Accounting Oversight Board to oversee the auditing of 
public companies; it banned accounting firms from offering other services to companies whose accounts they audit; it prohibited any individual from heading a firm’s 
audit for more than 5 years; and it required that the board’s audit committee consist of 
directors who are independent of the company’s management. Sarbanes-Oxley also 
required that management certify that the financial statements present a fair view of 
the firm’s financial position and demonstrate that the firm has adequate controls and 
procedures for financial reporting. All this has come at a price. Managers and investors worry that the costs of SOX and the burden of meeting detailed, inflexible regulations are pushing some corporations to return from public to private ownership. 
Some blame SOX and onerous regulation in the United States for the fact that an 
increasing number of foreign companies have chosen to list their shares in London 
rather than New York.
There is also a vigorous debate over “rules-based” versus “principles-based” 
approaches to accounting standards. The United States follows a rules-based approach, 
companies must be ready to defend their accounting practices in light of the general principles laid out in the IFRS. 
By contrast, in the United States, GAAP are accompanied by 
thousands of pages of prescriptive regulatory guidance 
and interpretations from auditors and accounting groups. 
For example, more than 160 pieces of authoritative literature 
relate to how and when companies record revenue. This 
leaves less room for judgment, but detailed rules rapidly 
become out of date, and unscrupulous companies have been 
able to structure transactions so that they keep to the letter 
but not the spirit of the rules.
By 2014, it had become clear that the SEC’s plan to move 
to IFRS was effectively dead and that, while the SEC and IASB 
would continue to collaborate on accounting rules, there was 
little prospect of any agreement over a single global standard 
that included the United States.
The International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), which 
are set by the London-based International Accounting 
Standards Board (IASB), aim to harmonize financial reporting 
around the world. They are the basis for reporting throughout 
the European Union. In addition, some 100 other countries, 
such as Australia, Canada, Brazil, India, and China, have 
adopted them or plan to do so.
For some years, the SEC has worked to bring U.S. accounting standards more in line with international rules. For example, until 2007 foreign companies that traded on U.S. stock 
exchanges were required to show how their accounts differed from U.S. GAAP. This was a very expensive exercise 
that cost some companies millions of dollars annually and 
caused many to delist their stocks. These companies can 
now simply report results using international accounting standards. Subsequently, in August 2008, the SEC released its 
plans to allow some large U.S. multinationals, representing 
approximately $2.5 trillion in market capitalization, to eventually use IFRS for financial statements.
This shift from GAAP to IFRS would involve a major change 
in the way that accountants in the United States approach 
their task. IFRS tend to be “principles-based,” which means 
that there are no hard-and-fast codes to follow. Instead, 
Finance in Practice The Rise and Stall of Convergence in Accounting Standards
BEYOND THE PAGE
mhhe.com/brealey9e
Accounting 
acronyms
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 3 Accounting and Finance 73
bre22619_ch03_056-085.indd 73 10/07/16 03:18 PM
with detailed rules governing virtually every circumstance that possibly can be anticipated. In contrast, the European Union takes a principles-based approach to accounting. Its International Financial Reporting Standards set out general approaches that 
financial statements should take to valuing assets. Europe and the United States have 
been engaged for years in attempts to coordinate their systems, and many in the United 
States have lobbied for the greater simplicity that principles-based accounting 
standards might offer. The nearby box reports on these efforts.
Taxes
Taxes often have a major effect on financial decisions. Therefore, we should explain 
how corporations and investors are taxed.
Corporate Tax
Companies pay tax on their income. Table 3.5 shows that there are special low rates of 
corporate tax for small companies, but for large companies (those with income over 
$18.33 million) the corporate tax rate is 35%.12 Thus for every $100 that the firm earns 
it pays $35 in corporate tax.
When firms calculate taxable income, they are allowed to deduct expenses. These 
expenses include an allowance for depreciation. However, the Internal Revenue 
Service (IRS) specifies the rates of depreciation that the company can use for different 
types of equipment. The rates of depreciation used to calculate taxes are not the same 
as the rates used when the firm reports its profits to shareholders.13
The company is also allowed to deduct interest paid to debtholders when calculating its taxable income, but dividends paid to shareholders are not deductible. These 
dividends are therefore paid out of after-tax income. Table 3.6 provides an example of 
how interest payments reduce corporate taxes. Although EBIT for both firms A and B 
3.5
Taxable Income ($) Tax Rate (%)
 0–50,000 15
 50,001–75,000 25
75,001–100,000 34
100,001–18,333,333 Varies between 39 and 34
Over 18,333,333 35
TABLE 3.5 Corporate tax 
rates, 2016
Firm A Firm B
EBIT $100 $100
Interest 40 0
Pretax income $ 60 $100
Tax (35% of pretax income) 21 35
Net income $ 39 $ 65
TABLE 3.6 Firms A and B both 
have earnings before interest 
and taxes (EBIT) of $100 million, 
but A pays out part of its profits 
as debt interest. This reduces the 
corporate tax paid by A.
Note: Figures in millions of dollars.
12 In addition, corporations pay state income taxes, which we ignore here for simplicity.
13 If the company assumes a slower rate of depreciation in its income statement than the Internal Revenue 
Service assumes, the tax charge shown in the income statement will be higher in the early years of a project’s 
life than the actual tax payment. This difference is recorded in the balance sheet as a liability for deferred tax. 
We will tell you more about depreciation allowances in Chapter 9.
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
74 Part One Introduction
bre22619_ch03_056-085.indd 74 10/07/16 03:18 PM
is $100 million, firm A, which has $40 million of interest expense, has lower pretax 
income and therefore pays less taxes.
The bad news about taxes is that each extra dollar of revenue increases taxable 
income by $1 and results in 35 cents of extra taxes. The good news is that each extra 
dollar of expense reduces taxable income by $1 and therefore reduces taxes by 
35 cents. For example, if the firm borrows money, every dollar of interest it pays on 
the loan reduces taxes by 35 cents. Therefore, a dollar of interest reduces after-tax 
income by only 65 cents.
14 Losses can be carried back for a maximum of 3 years and forward for up to 15 years.
Taxable Income ($)
Single Taxpayers Married Taxpayers Filing Joint Returns Tax Rate (%)
0–9,275 0–18,550 10.0
9,276–37,650 18,551–75,300 15.0
37,651–91,150 75,301–151,900 25.0
91,151–190,150 151,901–231,450 28.0
190,151–413,350 231,451–413,350 33.0
413,351–415,050 413,351–466,950 35.0
415,051 and above 466,951 and above 39.6
TABLE 3.7 Personal tax 
rates, 2016
When firms make profits, they pay 35% of the profits to the Internal Revenue 
Service. But the process doesn’t work in reverse; if the firm suffers a loss, the IRS does 
not send it a check for 35% of the loss. However, the firm can carry the losses back, 
deduct them from taxable income in earlier years, and claim a refund of past taxes. 
Losses can also be carried forward and deducted from taxable income in the future.14
Personal Tax
Table 3.7 shows the U.S. rates of personal tax. Notice that as income increases, the 
tax rate also increases. Notice also that the top personal tax rate is higher than the top 
corporate rate.
The tax rates presented in Table 3.7 are marginal tax rates. The marginal tax rate 
is the tax that the individual pays on each extra dollar of income. For example, as a 
single taxpayer, you would pay 10 cents of tax on each extra dollar you earn when your 
income is below $9,275, but once income exceeds $9,275, you would pay 15 cents of 
tax on each extra dollar of income up to an income of $37,650. If your total income is 
$50,000, your tax bill is 10% of the first $9,275 of income, 15% of the next $28,375 
(i.e., 37,650 − 9,275), and 25% of the remaining $12,350:
Tax = (.10 × $9,275) + (.15 × $28,375) + (.25 × $12,350) = $8,271.25
marginal tax rate
Additional taxes owed per 
dollar of additional income.
Recalculate the figures in Table 3.6, assuming that firm A now has to make interest payments of $60 million. What happens to taxes paid? Does net income fall 
by the additional $20 million interest payment compared with the case considered in Table 3.6, where interest expense was only $40 million?
3.5 Self-Test
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 3 Accounting and Finance 75
bre22619_ch03_056-085.indd 75 10/24/16 04:23 PM
The average tax rate is simply the total tax bill divided by total income. In this 
example it is $8,271.25/$50,000 = .165, or 16.5%. Notice that the average rate is lower 
than the marginal rate. This is because of the lower rates on the first $37,650.
average tax rate
Total taxes owed divided 
by total income.
BEYOND THE PAGE
mhhe.com/brealey9e
Average and 
marginal tax rates
The tax rates in Table 3.7 apply to “ordinary income,” primarily income earned as 
salary or wages. Interest earnings also are treated as ordinary income.
The U.S. government also taxes investment earnings, for example dividends or 
capital gains. The treatment of dividend income in the United States leads to what is 
commonly dubbed the “double taxation” of corporate earnings. Each dollar the company earns is taxed at the corporate rate. Then, if the company pays a dividend out of 
this after-tax income, the shareholder pays personal income taxes on the distribution. 
The original earnings are taxed first as corporate income and again as dividend income. 
Suppose instead that the company earns a dollar which is paid out as interest. The dollar escapes corporate tax because the interest payment is considered a business expense 
that reduces the firm’s taxable income.
Capital gains are also taxed, but only when the gains are realized. Suppose that you 
bought Bio-technics stock when it was selling for 10 cents a share. Its market price 
today is $1 a share. As long as you hold on to your stock, there is no tax to pay on your 
gain. But if you sell, the 90 cents of capital gain is taxed. 
Table 3.8 shows tax rates on investment income. For most investors, the effective 
tax rate is either 15% or 18.8% (15% plus a potential 3.8% surcharge), but the highest 
income investors pay an effective rate of 23.8%.
Financial managers need to worry about the tax treatment of investment income 
because tax policy will affect the prices individuals are willing to pay for the company’s stock or bonds. We will return to these issues in Part 5 of the text.
The tax rates in Table 3.7 and Table 3.8 apply to individuals. But financial institutions are major investors in corporate securities. These institutions often have special 
tax provisions. For example, pension funds are not taxed on interest or dividend 
income or on capital gains.
*These rates apply to capital gains and dividends on assets held for at least one year.
**In addition to these nominal rates, an additional 3.8% surtax is assessed on net investment income for taxpayers 
with total income over $200,000 (single filers) or $250,000 (married filing jointly).
What are the average and marginal tax rates for a single taxpayer with a taxable 
income of $80,000? What are the average and marginal tax rates for married 
taxpayers filing joint returns if their joint taxable income is also $80,000?
3.6 Self-Test
TABLE 3.8 Tax rates on 
investment income* 
corresponding to 2016 tax 
brackets**
Taxable Income ($)
Single Taxpayers Married Taxpayers Filing Joint Returns Tax Rate (%)
0–9,275 0–18,550 0
9,276–37,650 18,551–75,300 0
37,651–91,150 75,301–151,900 15
91,151–190,150 151,901–231,450 15
190,151–413,350 231,451–413,350 15
413,351–415,050 413,351–466,950 15
415,051 and above 466,951 and above 20
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
76 Part One Introduction
bre22619_ch03_056-085.indd 76 10/07/16 03:18 PM
SUMMARY
Investors and other stakeholders in the firm need regular financial information to help 
them monitor the firm’s progress. Accountants summarize this information in a balance 
sheet, income statement, and statement of cash flows.
The balance sheet provides a snapshot of the firm’s assets and liabilities. The assets 
consist of current assets that can be rapidly turned into cash and fixed assets such as plant 
and machinery. The liabilities consist of current liabilities that are due for payment within 
a year and long-term debts. The difference between the assets and the liabilities represents 
the amount of the shareholders’ equity.
The income statement measures the profitability of the company during the year. 
It shows the difference between revenues and expenses.
The statement of cash flows measures the sources and uses of cash during the year. 
The change in the company’s cash balance is the difference between sources and uses.
It is important to distinguish between the book values that are shown in the company 
accounts and the market values of the assets and liabilities. Book values are historical 
measures based on the original cost of an asset. For example, the assets in the balance sheet 
are shown at their historical cost less an allowance for depreciation. Similarly, the figure 
for shareholders’ equity measures the cash that shareholders have contributed in the past or 
that the company has reinvested on their behalf. In contrast, market value is the current 
price of an asset or liability.
Income is not the same as cash flow. There are two reasons for this: (1) Investment in fixed 
assets is not deducted immediately from income but is instead spread (as charges for depreciation) over the expected life of the equipment, and (2) the accountant records revenues 
when the sale is made, rather than when the customer actually pays the bill, and at the same 
time deducts the production costs even though those costs may have been incurred earlier.
For large companies the marginal rate of tax on income is 35%. In calculating taxable 
income the company deducts an allowance for depreciation and interest payments. It cannot deduct dividend payments to the shareholders.
Individuals are also taxed on their income, which includes dividends and interest on 
their investments. Capital gains are taxed, but only when the investment is sold and the 
gain realized.
What information is 
contained in the balance 
sheet, income statement, 
and statement of cash 
flows? (LO3-1)
What is the difference 
between market and book 
values? (LO3-2) 
Why does accounting 
income differ from cash 
flow? (LO3-3)
What are the essential 
features of the taxation of 
corporate and personal 
income? (LO3-4)
LISTING OF EQUATION
3.1 Shareholders’ equity = net assets = total assets − total liabilities
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Financial Statements. Earlier in the chapter, we characterized the balance sheet as providing a 
snapshot of the firm at one point in time and the income statement as providing a video. What 
did we mean by this? Is the statement of cash flow more like a snapshot or a video? (LO3-1)
2. Balance Sheet. Balance sheet items are usually entered in order of declining liquidity. Place 
each of the terms below in the appropriate place in the following balance sheet. (LO3-1)
Accounts payable Total current assets
Net fixed assets Accounts receivable
Debt due for repayment Total current liabilities
Cash and marketable securities Inventories
Equity Long-term debt
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 3 Accounting and Finance 77
bre22619_ch03_056-085.indd 77 10/07/16 03:18 PM
3. Balance Sheet. Construct a balance sheet for Sophie’s Sofas given the following data. What is 
shareholders’ equity? (LO3-1)
Cash balances = $10,000
Inventory of sofas = $200,000
Store and property = $100,000
Accounts receivable = $22,000
Accounts payable = $17,000
Long-term debt = $170,000
4. Income Statement. A firm’s income statement included the following data. The firm’s 
average tax rate was 20%. (LO3-1)
Cost of goods sold $8,000
Income taxes paid $2,000
Administrative expenses $3,000
Interest expense $1,000
Depreciation $1,000
Assets Liabilities and Equity
a. f.
b. g.
c. h.
d. i.
e. j.
Total assets Total liabilities and equity
a. What was the firm’s net income?
b. What must have been the firm’s revenues?
c. What was EBIT?
5. Balance Sheet/Income Statement. The year-end 2015 balance sheet of Brandex Inc. listed 
common stock and other paid-in capital at $1,100,000 and retained earnings at $3,400,000. 
The next year, retained earnings were listed at $3,700,000. The firm’s net income in 2016 
was $900,000. There were no stock repurchases during the year. What were the dividends paid 
by the firm in 2016? (LO3-1)
6. Financial Statements. South Sea Baubles has the following (incomplete) balance sheet and 
income statement. (LO3-1, LO3-4)
BALANCE SHEET AT END OF YEAR
(Figures in $ millions)
Assets 2015 2016 Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity 2015 2016
Current assets $ 90 $140 Current liabilities $ 50 $ 60
Net fixed assets 800 900 Long-term debt 600 750
INCOME STATEMENT, 2016
(Figures in $ millions)
Revenue $1,950
Cost of goods sold 1,030
Depreciation 350
Interest expense 240
a. What is shareholders’ equity in 2015?
b. What is shareholders’ equity in 2016?
c. What is net working capital in 2015? 
d. What is net working capital in 2016?
e. What are taxes paid in 2016? Assume the firm pays taxes equal to 35% of taxable income. 
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
78 Part One Introduction
bre22619_ch03_056-085.indd 78 10/07/16 03:18 PM
f. What is cash provided by operations during 2016? Pay attention to changes in net working 
capital, using Table 3.4 as a guide.
g. Net fixed assets increased from $800 million to $900 million during 2016. What must have 
been South Sea’s gross investment in fixed assets during 2016?
h. If South Sea reduced its outstanding accounts payable by $35 million during the year, what 
must have happened to its other current liabilities?
7. Financial Statements. Here are the 2015 and 2016 (incomplete) balance sheets for Newble Oil 
Corp. (LO3-1)
BALANCE SHEET AT END OF YEAR
(Figures in $ millions)
Assets 2015 2016 Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity 2015 2016
Current assets $ 310 $ 420 Current liabilities $210 $240
Net fixed assets 1,200 1,420 Long-term debt 830 920
BALANCE SHEET
Payables $ 35 Inventories $50
Less accumulated depreciation 120 Receivables 35
Total current assets Total current liabilities
Long-term debt $350 Interest expense $25
Property, plant, and equipment 520 Total liabilities
Net fixed assets Shareholders’ equity $90
Total assets Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity
INCOME STATEMENT
Net sales $700
Cost of goods sold 580
Selling, general, and administrative expenses 38
EBIT
Debt due for repayment $ 25
Cash 15
Taxable income
Taxes $ 15
Depreciation 12
Net income
a. What was shareholders’ equity at the end of 2015?
b. What was shareholders’ equity at the end of 2016?
c. If Newble paid dividends of $100 in 2016 and made no stock issues, what must have been 
net income during the year?
d. If Newble purchased $300 in fixed assets during 2016, what must have been the depreciation 
charge on the income statement?
e. What was the change in net working capital between 2015 and 2016?
f. If Newble issued $200 of new long-term debt, how much debt must have been paid off 
during the year?
8. Financial Statements. Henry Josstick has just started his first accounting course and has prepared the following balance sheet and income statement for Omega Corp. Unfortunately, 
although the data for the individual items are correct, he is very confused as to whether an item 
should go in the balance sheet or income statement and whether it is an asset or liability. 
Help him by rearranging the items and filling in the blanks.
What is the correct total for the following? (LO3-1)
a. Current assets
b. Net fixed assets
c. Total assets
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
Chapter 3 Accounting and Finance 79
bre22619_ch03_056-085.indd 79 10/24/16 04:23 PM
d. Current liabilities
e. Total liabilities
f. Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity
g. EBIT
h. Taxable income
i. Net income
9. Market versus Book Values. The founder of Alchemy Products Inc. discovered a way to turn 
gold into lead and patented this new technology. He then formed a corporation and invested 
$200,000 in setting up a production plant. He believes that he could sell his patent for 
$50 million. (LO3-2)
a. What is the book value of the firm?
b. What is the market value of the firm?
c. If there are 2 million shares of stock in the new corporation, what is the book value per share?
d. What is the price per share?
10. Market versus Book Values. State whether each of the following events would increase or 
decrease the ratio of market value to book value. (LO3-2)
a. Big Oil announces the discovery of a major new oil field in Costaguana.
b. Big Autos increases its depreciation provision.
c. Since Big Stores purchased its assets, inflation has risen sharply.
11. Market versus Book Values. (LO3-2)
a. In early 2015, the market values of the shares of many banks (e.g., Bank of America or 
Citigroup) were less than book value per share. How would you interpret this pattern?
b. At the same time, Google’s market value per share was more than four times its book value. 
Is this consistent with your analysis in part (a)?
12. Income versus Cash Flow. Explain why accounting income generally differs from a firm’s 
cash inflows. (LO3-3)
13. Cash Flows. Will the following actions increase or decrease the firm’s cash balance? (LO3-3)
a. The firm sells some goods from inventory.
b. The firm sells some machinery to a bank and leases it back for a period of 20 years.
c. The firm buys back 1 million shares of stock from existing shareholders.
14. Income versus Cash Flow. Butterfly Tractors had $14 million in sales last year. Cost of goods 
sold was $8 million, depreciation expense was $2 million, interest payment on outstanding debt 
was $1 million, and the firm’s tax rate was 35%. (LO3-3)
a. What was the firm’s net income?
b. What was the firm’s cash flow?
c. What would happen to net income and cash flow if depreciation were increased by 
$1 million?
d. Would you expect the change in depreciation to have a positive or negative impact on the 
firm’s stock price?
e. What would be the impact on net income if depreciation was $1 million and interest expense 
was $2 million?
f. What would be the impact on cash flow if depreciation was $1 million and interest expense 
was $2 million?
15. Working Capital. QuickGrow is in an expanding market, and its sales are increasing by 25% 
per year. Would you expect its net working capital to be increasing or decreasing? (LO3-3)
16. Income Statement. Sheryl’s Shipping had sales last year of $10,000. The cost of goods sold 
was $6,500, general and administrative expenses were $1,000, interest expenses were $500, and 
depreciation was $1,000. The firm’s tax rate is 35%. (LO3-3)
a. What are earnings before interest and taxes?
b. What is net income?
c. What is cash flow from operations?
17. Income versus Cash Flow. Start-up firms typically have negative net cash flows for several 
years. (LO3-3)
a. Does this mean that they are failing?
b. Accounting profits for these firms are also commonly negative. How would you interpret 
this pattern? Is there a shortcoming in our accounting rules?
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.
80 Part One Introduction
bre22619_ch03_056-085.indd 80 10/07/16 03:18 PM
18. Income versus Cash Flow. Can cash flow from operations be positive if net income is 
negative? Can it be negative if net income is positive? Give examples. (LO3-3)
19. Income versus Cash Flow. During the last year of operations, Theta’s accounts receivable 
increased by $10,000, accounts payable increased by $5,000, and inventories decreased by 
$2,000. What is the total impact of these changes on the difference between profits and cash 
flow? (LO3-3)
20. Income versus Cash Flow. Candy Canes Inc. spends $100,000 to buy sugar and peppermint in 
April. It produces its candy and sells it to distributors in May for $150,000, but it does not 
receive payment until June. For each month, find the firm’s sales, net income, and net cash flow, 
and fill in the following table. (LO3-3)
Sales Net Income Cash Flow
April a. b. c.
May d. e. f.
June g. h. i.
INCOME STATEMENT OF QUICK BURGER CORP., 2016
(Figures in $ millions)
Net sales $27,567
Costs 17,569
Depreciation 1,402
Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) $ 8,596
Interest expense 517
Pretax income 8,079
Taxes 2,614
Net income $ 5,465
21. Income versus Cash Flow. Ponzi Products produced 100 chain-letter kits this quarter, resulting 
in a total cash outlay of $10 per unit. It will sell 50 of the kits next quarter at a price of $11, and 
the other 50 kits in the third quarter at a price of $12. It takes a full quarter for Ponzi to collect 
its bills from its customers. (Ignore possible sales in earlier or later quarters.) (LO3-3)
a. What is the net income for Ponzi next quarter?
b. What are the cash flows for the company this quarter?
c. What are the cash flows for the company in the third quarter?
d. What is Ponzi’s net working capital in the next quarter?
22. Income versus Cash Flow. Value Added Inc. buys $1 million of sow’s ears at the beginning of 
January but doesn’t pay immediately. Instead, it agrees to pay the bill in March. It processes the 
ears into silk purses, which it sells for $2 million in February. However, it will not collect 
payment on the sales until April. (LO3-3)
a. What is the firm’s net income in February?
b. What is its net income in March?
c. What is the firm’s net new investment in working capital in January?
d. What is its net new investment in working capital in April?
e. What is the firm’s cash flow in January?
f. What is the firm’s cash flow in February?
g. What is the cash flow in March?
h. What is the cash flow in April?
23. Free Cash Flow. Free cash flow measures the cash available for distribution to debtholders and 
shareholders. Look at Section 3.3, where we calculate free cash flow for Home Depot. Show 
how this cash was distributed to investors. How much was used to build up cash reserves? 
(LO3-3)
24. Free Cash Flow. The following table shows an abbreviated income statement and balance sheet 
for Quick Burger Corporation for 2016.
Final PDF to printer
Brealey, Richard, et al. ISE EBook Online Access for Fundamentals of Corporate Finance, McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central,
 http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/auckland/detail.action?docID=5662584.
Created from auckland on 2023-02-26 06:24:32. Copyright © 2017. McGraw-Hill US Higher Ed ISE. All rights reserved.